Let ’ s Get Back to Basics. Rutgers Day is about who we are and what we do. In this milestone fifth year, let ’ s get back to basics and make this day about us…not special interest groups, or making money from visitors; and not commercializing our programs with outside vendors.
Let’s Get Back to Basics Rutgers Day is about who we are and what we do. In this milestone fifth year, let’s get back to basics and make this day about us…not special interest groups, or making money from visitors; and not commercializing our programs with outside vendors.
Free Activities Policy Visitors should not have to pay to participate in any games or activities on Rutgers Day. Rutgers Day is designed to offer the public a fun, free day to meet students, faculty, and staff; explore campuses; and discover more about their state university. Corporate Sponsor Policy Individual departments or organizations may not seek their own sponsorship for giveaway items or to underwrite their program. Potential sponsors should be directed to this sponsorship link. Keep this day about Rutgers, your program, and how we serve the citizens of the state!
How You Can Participate • Use creative ways to showcase your teaching, research, and service. Make it fun, interactive, and informative. • Promote your program early with our marketing materials. • Spread the word about Rutgers Day through your newsletter, Facebook page, Twitter, or website. • You are the best ambassador for your program!
Tips for Success: Your Audience • Most visitors are young families and alumni. Gear your message toward them. • Keep your program “G” rated. • Make your program fun, interactive, informative, and FREE! • Keep it short and moving. • Welcome and engage visitors. • Ask your visitors for feedback about yourprogram, and keep it in mind for next year!
Tips for Success: Your Program • Turn the mission of your organization or department into a game or contest! • Make it informative, interactive, and fun! • Focus on “friendraising,” not fundraising. This is a free day for visitors. • Encourage faculty involvement. Visitors love to meet professors. • Think “green” and limit handouts. • Work in shifts, so you can enjoy Rutgers Day too! • Take pictures and post them on the Rutgers Day Facebook page.
Tips for Success: Logistics • In early March, you will receive an email confirming your program equipment. • In early April, you will receive an email confirming your program location and load-in information. • All programs must be up and running by 10 a.m. • Break down is not permitted before 4 p.m. • Plan for inclement weather. Rutgers Day takes place rain or shine. • In case of extreme weather, you will be contacted with rain plan details, and be sure to check the Rutgers Day website for information.
Tips to Get You Started • Create games and activities that highlight your subject area, like Jeopardy, a match game, Where’s Waldo, or word jumbles. • Have people compete to solve a puzzle or answer a question. • Create a card game or jigsaw puzzle using words, ideas, or concepts from your subject area to teach while having fun. • Be interactive, not static. People have a lot to see on Rutgers Day, so they’ll want to keep moving.
Spread the Word • Promote your program early with our marketing materials. • Include Rutgers Day and program information in newsletters and general emails by posting Save-the-Date graphics. • Add a Rutgers Day link to your email signature, Facebook, or YouTube page. • Become a fan on our Facebook page, and encourage friends to become fans as well. • Share Rutgers Day flyers and bookmarks with others. • Encourage your friends and family to come. • Tweet during Rutgers Day to publicize your program.