Best known for her well-toned body and nuanced performances in Hollywood films, Megan Fox knows how to elevate the fashion quotient with her sartorial outfit looks. The diva's bikini looks definitely know how to raise the temperature and style game on social media.
 Kim Kardashian always amplifies hotness with her scintillating bikini looks that go viral on Instagram. The global icon and fashion diva serves a dose of hotness in the sexiest Bikinis. Here is a glance at Kim Kardashian's sizzling bikini photos, which are sensational and unmissable.
 Something about Mia Khalifa keeps everyone on her toes. You want to watch her Instagram feed full of captivating and tempting pictures and videos of herself enjoying the best of her days as she soaks in the sun and sets Instagram ablaze with her luscious curves and assets in the sexiest bikini looks and risque attires. A glance at Mia Khalifa's latest photos in black see-through attire can make fans drool at her luscious curves.
 The globally renowned model and fashionista Kendall Jenner knows how to elevate tones and voguing fashion on social media. A glance and look at the globally celebrated supermodel and diva's hottest pictures in sizzling bikinis and attires, which are just sensual and unmissable.
 The OnePlus folding phone may be called OnePlus One or V Fold. The renders tease a leather back and a large external display with slim bezels. The price remains unclear, though we can expect the phone to cost above Rs 1 lakh.
 Explore the magic of dressing up this monsoon with skirts as we bring you customised hacks to style skirts in a trendy yet chic way. Check them out:
If you want to restore the appearance of a leather bag and make it look brand new again. With proper care, your leather can regain its shine and continue to look beautiful over time.
 iQOO Neo 7 Pro 5G has been launched in India at a starting price of Rs 34,999. The highlights of the smartphone includes its 50MP triple rear camera setup, Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 chipset, support for 120W fast charging and its leather back design.
 Something about Mia Khalifa keeps everyone on her toes. You want to watch her Instagram feed full of beautiful and ravishing pictures and videos of her enjoying the time of her life and sunny days in a Bikini and risque attires.
 Kim Kardashian wore SKIMS's soon-to-be-launched black faux leather bikini in new Instagram pictures. The global icon and fashion diva serve a dose of hotness in the sexy and scintillating photos which are sensational and alluring and went viral on social media in a few hours.
 The OnePlus V Fold may feature a faux leather back. The back may include three camera sensors. The OnePlus V Fold will also likely launch in India. OnePlus' first folding device will launch in the third quarter of 2023, though the exact date remains unclear.
 The globally renowned socialite and fashionista Kylie Jenner knows how to elevate tones and voguing fashion on social media. A glance at the diva's sartorial outfit pictures, which are just sensual and hot.
 The Central Leather Research Institute (CLRI) has developed a technology to make leather-like products using mango pulp. This new material from mango pulp could be an eco-friendly alternative to synthetic leather and it has 50% of mango pulp.
 Netizens have come across an old picture of Alia Bhatt where she holds a leather bag while wearing a speak up for animals printed t-shirt. The thread has gone viral on Reddit with ardent cinema lovers bashing her for promoting animal love while holding a leather bag.
 Deepika Padukone is turning heads at the Paris Fashion Week. The actress shared a lovely photo of herself wearing a leather jacket sans trousers, creating a glam goth style.