A brilliant second-half display from Chelsea earned them a well-deserved 0-3 win over Tottenham Hotspur in their Premier League clash on Saturday. Goals from Thiago Silva, N’Golo Kante, and Antonio Rudiger sealed the three points for the Blues, who now sit atop the league table.
The first half played out as an exciting end-to-end affair, with both teams having promising chances that they failed to convert. Spurs enjoyed more possession and had better chances, with Chelsea occasionally looking threatening on the break.
The visitors attacked the second half with renewed vigour and took the lead four minutes in through Silva’s dominant header. They went two for the good soon after as Kante’s deflected effort from range hit the post and trickled agonizingly past Hugo Lloris.
And, having passed up several opportunities to extend their lead, Chelsea finally got their third in injury time. Rudiger swept home Timo Werner’s cut-back to cap off an excellent performance from Thomas Tuchel’s men.
On that note, here are five hits and flops from the game.
The veteran defender turned in an exceptional performance, making his mark at both ends of the pitch. Not only did he lead by example in defense, but he also made an important offensive contribution when he headed in Chelsea’s opener.
Silva used every bit of his considerable experience on the pitch, showcasing exemplary positioning and reading of the game. He was always in the right place at the right time to make vital interceptions, with his goal capping off a superb all-round display.
Kane’s hunt for his first Premier League goal of the season went on as he had a disappointing outing against Chelsea. Goal-scoring opportunities were few and far between for the Spurs striker, who struggled to make a real impact in proceedings.
Kane’s propensity to drop deep to dictate play meant that he was often too far back to get involved in his side’s forays forward. As such, while Spurs created several chances, their premier goal-scorer was never on hand to take advantage of them.
On a night dominated by Chelsea’s defenders, Rudiger put the finishing touches on the victory by bagging a goal late on. The German was equally impressive at the back, playing his part in keeping Spurs’ attackers at bay.
Rudiger was full of running throughout, throwing himself into tackles without hesitation and muscling opposition attackers off the ball when needed. A mainstay of their hugely effective back three, Chelsea will be hoping for more of the same from him throughout the season.
In a game where two of the world’s best centre-forwards faced off, both Lukaku and Harry Kane ended up having disappointing outings. Despite a couple of chances late in the game, Lukaku spent most of the match on the periphery of the action.
The Belgian spent the first half isolated up top as Spurs dominated possession. Even when the game opened up in the second, Lukaku’s erratic shooting saw him end the game without a goal to his name.
Making his first league start of the season, Ndombele was one of the few Spurs players who gave a creditable account of themselves. The Frenchman added a touch of class to the Spurs midfield, showcasing his formidable physicality and excellent passing skills.
Replaced just after the hour mark, Ndombele went off to appreciative applause from the Spurs fans in attendance. Despite the result on the night, he can surely be counted on to contribute significantly to Spurs’ season going forward.