All this are purely fictitious written using many Marvel characters.
Iron Man the battle of mutant,
Captain America vs no-remorse,
Black Panther and Avengers vs the dark avengers before reading this story.
"Completion of any work is important to determine what impact it had on anyone."
let the final saga begin.
At planet Hala,
Krees are getting their weapons and spaceships fill civilians to take them to another planet.
But the army or armies attacking them is not letting any people to move out and kept attacking the planet and killing all in it.
Suddenly an energy filled projectile is shown in a spaceship tracker panel and captain marvel crushes it and starts attacking other battleships.
Suddenly Qwaski joins the party by hitting captain marvel.
Captain marvel sees other species like Archenonians, Aakon, Chitauri attacking them.
Qwaski takes his new weapon charged with energy of tesseract with small alteration done.
She sends an warning message to avengers and other planets.
Qwaski attacks her and she goes into a comatose state and saved by one of the few spaceship escaping.
The armies roar and they next travel to another planet.
Meanwhile in Avengers compound,
The message reaches but the system suddenly crashes and the room gets burst due to electricity.
Iron legion comes there and puts out the fire and tries to check the backup of system.
In a random street in new york,
Peter parker keeps on eating hamburgers and burps.
Venom communicates with him saying "enough parker."
parker suddenly gets up seeing his professor who invites peter to his home.
Peter politely refuses and after a hour, peter along with venom searches for toxin symbiote.
Meanwhile at atlantis,
a submarine is moving with hawkeye and black window in it carefully searching for enemies and they are attacking it.
At a distance, entire army of atlantis with Iron man, Captain America, Hulk, Thor, doctor strange, war machine, pepper Potts in rescuer suit are fighting the Kaj-Kij mutants who attack atlantis.
After a tough time, the fight ends with arrest of kaj-kij commander.
Namor thanks all and invites them for the winning celebration party with dance, music traditonal to atlantis.
Iron man accepts it and they enjoy the next three days until an alert message is send from avengers compound.
Iron man and other avengers reach there to see Wanda and Vision standing out.
Iron man and others learn an huge war is on earth that is due to the enemy they faced at mania planet, king Qwaski.
They send an message to X-men.
Peter parker and Venom finally find toxin bonding to a girl and they enter the house.
The girl's nanny run in fear screaming.
suddenly toxin takes control of the girl's body.
Venom and Peter sees the photo and learns the girl is his professor's daughter.
Peter pleads not to attack the girl.
Venom takes charge and fights with toxin to his surprise, toxin successfully defends the attack.
Peter takes control of Venom and Venom replies i tested whether this off-spring from our lineage is good and can make an offspring for the surving of my symbiote family.
Toxin acknowledges venom and Peter takes toxin from the girl's body and sends it to space using a space shuttle program.
Iron legion starts going to all places in earth to check for suspicious activities.
Iron man and other avengers with x-men gather weapons for war with black Panther joining them.
Asgardian army fights with Qwaski and his army so thor goes there to lead his army.
Iron man, Black Panther prepares an planetary shield protecting earth with the help of professor Eric Selvig.
Qwaski successfully leads his expedition to Earth as Asgard gets defeated.
Thor puts his stormbreaker down in a distraught state and shouts out loud.
Qwaski makes one-fourth of his army wait at space to break the planetary shield.
As the avengers with X-men and other superheroes ready to fight with separate groups stationed at important places throughout the earth.
Suddenly portals open randomly at all places in earth with 3/4 th of the army entering it attacking people.
Many such places were without superheroes.
Policemen, army of that country reached out there as early to save people.
Iron legion at space attacks the army of Qwaski and suddenly Iron legion stops attacking and returns to earth.
It then joins in attacking with army of Qwaski.
Iron man understands Iron legion is hacked and stops its working through his AI.
Suddenly another four portals open at Antartica, Greenland, Russia, Himalayas.
Chitauri army brings an device (advanced alien technology from kree planet Hala) and turns on it.
Iron Man and Black Panther figures it out.
The plan of Qwaski is to melt all the ice in earth to increase sea level and submerge countries in it.
Iron man asks doctor strange to open portal to each of the place for himself Wanda, Thor and for him.
Wanda and Thor crush the machine.
Doctor strange stops the working of machine using his magic and throws it outside the earth and joins the fight.
Indian Defense Agency (IDA) sends some out its superheroes and trained professionals to fight alongside army.
Iron man works with his AI and Black Panther to understand the working of machine and changes it to an energy bomb an its target to any moving projectile and takes it to outer space and throws it at Qwaski and Army and quickly shields himself.
The energy bomb bursts destroying the army.
Doctor Strange captures Qwaski and puts him his magical prison.
The world stood alongside superheroes to defend an extra-terrestrial attack.
The damages done, life of many superheroes, policemen, army, people lost.
Doctor strange returns Thor the space stone with Thor assuring safety of it and returns to Asgard to start rebuilding it.
Black Panther kept analysing the damage thinking about the rebuilding phase of world and searching for aliens remaining in earth after war.
At the next room,
Iron man takes a sip of coffee and looks at a secured box containing Symbiote toxin kept in his table and smiling looking at it and his iron man suit behind it.
Meanwhile Spider man and Venom fight over their night dinner list in his room.