Yuvraj Singh edited out MS Dhoni while sharing a fan-made video on his 41st birthday. The former India all-rounder celebrated his 41st birthday on December 12. Yuvraj and Dhoni shared the dressing room for over a decade. Yuvraj played a pivotal role in Team India's title wins in the 2007 T20 World Cup and the 2011 50-over World Cup.
 Yuvraj Singh turned a year older and celebrated his 41st birthday on December 12. One of the greatest all-rounders to have played for the country, Yuvraj received wishes from his former teammates and countless fans on social media. One of the fans even made a tribute video for Yuvraj.
 The video captured the attention of Yuvraj and he reshared it on his Twitter handle. But he made a slight change to the video. The fans were quick to notice that Yuvraj edited out his former captain, MS Dhoni, from the video.
 The fan-made video had a pic of Dhoni and Yuvraj enjoying a bike ride after a match. But the pic didn't feature in the video shared by Yuvraj. Yuvraj and Dhoni shared the dressing room for more than a decade and it isn't known why the star all-rounder edited out Dhoni from the video (from 0. 36).
 Yuvraj made his debut 4 years before Dhoni. The left-hander was called into the national team after his success at the U-19 World Cup and made his debut in the 2000 Champions Trophy. His Test debut came against New Zealand in Mohali in 2003. Yuvraj was Team India's white-ball vice-captain but never got a chance to lead the team.
 Speaking to Sports18 earlier this year, Yuvraj had revealed that he was supposed to lead Team India in the 2007 T20 World Cup and Dhoni became captain out of nowhere.
 “I was supposed to be the captain. Then the Greg Chappell incident happened. It had become Chappell or Sachin. I was probably the only player who supported…that I support my teammate. And there were a lot of people in the…Some of the BCCI officials did not like that. It was said that they should make anybody the captain but not myself. This is what I heard,” Yuvraj had told Sports18.
 “I am not sure how true it is. Suddenly from vice-captaincy I was removed. Sehwag was not there in the team. So, out of nowhere, Mahi (MS Dhoni) became captain for the 2007 T20 World Cup. I thought I was going to be the captain. "
Yuvraj retired from international cricket in 2019 while Dhoni quit playing for Team India in August 2020. His previous appearance for the Men in Blue came in the semi-final of the 2019 World Cup.