Union Labour Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar said that centre has no data about the deaths of migrants during the lockdown that began in March.
 After the government told the parliament in a written reply on Monday that it has no data available on deaths and job losses of migrant labourers during the coronavirus lockdown, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a jibe on the government in a tweet.
 On the first day of the monsoon session in parliament, answering a written question whether thousands of migrants died during the lockdown, Union Labour Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar said that centre has no data about the death of migrants during the lockdown that began in March.
 “The Modi government does not know how many migrants died during lockdown… how many lost jobs. If you didn’t count… did nobody die? The sad part is that the government does not care about the loss of lives. The world saw them dying… Modi government was unaware,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi.
 मोदी सरकार नहीं जानती कि लॉकडाउन में कितने प्रवासी मज़दूर मरे और कितनी नौकरियाँ गयीं।
 तुमने ना गिना तो क्या मौत ना हुई?
 हाँ मगर दुख है सरकार पे असर ना हुई,
उनका मरना देखा ज़माने ने,
एक मोदी सरकार है जिसे ख़बर ना हुई।
 Rahul Gandhi is constantly raising different issues against the Modi government in his series of interactive videos. He’s also attacking the centre on issues such as economy, Chinese incursions, GST compensation etc.
 Earlier, Gandhi, taking a dig at the government, said its “well-planned fight” against coronavirus has allegedly put India in an “abyss” of GDP reduction of 24 per cent, 12 crore job losses, 15. 5 lakh crore additional stressed loans, and globally highest daily COVID-19 cases and deaths.
 Rahul Gandhi accused the Modi government of not handling the COVID-19 pandemic effectively.
 “Modi Govt’s well-planned fight’ against Covid has put India in an abyss of: 1. Historic GDP reduction of 24% 2. 12 crore jobs lost 3. 15. 5 lac crores additional stressed loans 4. Globally highest daily Covid cases & deaths,” Gandhi said in a tweet.
 As an independent media platform, we do not take advertisements from governments and corporate houses. It is you, our readers, who have supported us on our journey to do honest and unbiased journalism. Please contribute, so that we can continue to do the same in future.