The title for 'Thalapathy' Vijay's next is out and the big reveal of the film being called LEO is the talk of the town after an intriguing and power-packed announcement was released on Friday, February 3. The upcoming film is billed to be an action-packed gangster venture and the leading Tamil actor is reuniting once again with filmmaker Lokesh Kanagaraj after their 2021 blockbuster, Master. With this first Thalapathy 67 promo revealing the title to be LEO, another striking aspect in the latest visual glimpse is the 'Bloody Sweet' song and subsequently the mention of lyrics of the track written by Heisenberg.
 The 'Bloody Sweet' song has come out as an unexpected big surprise for Vijay's fans and Anirudh Ravichander and Siddharth Basrur have contributed on the vocal front to make us feel the powerful emotions behind what they will be witnessing in full when LEO hits theatres worldwide on October 19 in Tamil, Hindi, Telugu, and Kannada languages. However, the inclusion of the song in the Thalapathy 67 title reveal promo also raises the big question - who is Heisenberg? Fans will know that the name Heisenberg was used in the smash hit American crime drama television series, Breaking Bad, as an alias for Bryan Cranston's character Walter White in order to mask his identity.
 The name of the 'Bloody Sweet' song's lyricist mentioned as Heisenberg in the LEO promo has once again left many pondering who the person could be after he/she had written the verses for the 'Wasted' track in 'Ulaganayagan' Kamal Haasan's Vikram released in 2022, which as well was composed by Anirudh and was directed by Lokesh Kanagaraj. With Heisenberg yet to be revealed, the lyrics in the 'Bloody Sweet' song in the Thalapathy 67 title promo have taken social media by storm and the track is expected to top the charts in quick time.
 There is also considerable talk that LEO and Vikram are tied into the widely-debated 'Lokesh Cinematic Universe' (LCU), and it is a waiting game at this point as fans will have to wait till the film opens in cinemas later this year. The Vijay-starrer is being produced by S S Lalit Kumar's 7 Screen Studio and features a massive star cast that includes Trisha Krishnan as the female lead, while Sanjay Dutt, 'Action King' Arjun, Mysskin, Gautham Menon, Mansoor Ali Khan, Priya Anand, Mathew Thomas, and popular choreographer Sandy master will be seen in pivotal roles.