Users will no longer be able to upload 'high quality' photos to Google Photos for free. All photos uploaded in this manner will count toward your 15GB free Google Drive storage beginning June 15th.
 Users will no longer be able to upload 'high quality' photos to Google Photos for free. All photos uploaded in this manner will count toward your 15GB free Google Drive storage beginning June 15th.
 While 15GB may seem like a lot of space for images, keep in mind that the allotted Google Drive storage also includes backups from apps like WhatsApp and data from other Google apps like Gmail, both of which take up space.
 However, 'high quality' photos uploaded before June 1st are exempt, so all of your existing media is safe. This is Google's attempt to entice users to subscribe to its Google One service.
 Listed below are few other alternatives to Google Photos which you can consider:
Google Drive's spiritual successor is Google One. Fortunately, it is reasonably priced in the Indian market, with the basic 100GB plan costing only Rs 130 per month. Google One is a centralised backup location for all of your Google services, including Gmail, Photos, and others. The best part is that you can also share some of that space with family members.
 Microsoft tries to push OneDrive to its users, as Windows users will attest. While its entry-level 100GB plan costs Rs 140/month, which is roughly the same as Google One, it isn't as tightly integrated with Google's ecosystem as Google One. However, OneDrive is a viable alternative for Samsung users, as most newly released Samsung devices support direct OneDrive integration for backups and other purposes. Its 'free' tier provides a meagre 5GB of storage space, which is easily consumed. If you require more than 100GB of storage, you must subscribe to Office 365, which provides 1TB.
 iCloud is already well-known in the Apple ecosystem. iCloud, like OneDrive, offers only 5GB of free storage before asking you to pay. Surprisingly, it is one of the less expensive cloud storage services on the market, with its 50GB plan costing Rs 75/month. The 200GB plan costs Rs 219 per month. While iCloud can be accessed from a variety of devices, Android phones are not among them. iCloud is only really useful for Apple users who want to switch from Google Photos to iCloud.
 Dropbox is one of the market's oldest players in cloud storage. Its free plan provides a laughable 2GB of storage, but its higher tiers may be useful for people who need to offload a large amount of data to the cloud. The 2TB plan, which costs US$11. 99 per month, is the next step up (roughly Rs 872). While it is slightly more expensive, it includes a plethora of features such as the ability to remotely wipe any device, smart sync, camera uploads, and more.
 Nothing prevents you from launching your own cloud storage service if you have the time, patience, and expertise. Keep in mind that the process can be time-consuming and will necessitate the use of (or the rental of) a server. However, if you play your cards right, it could work out to be a lot cheaper. Although services like Plex and Synology make the process a little easier, it is still quite daunting for newcomers.
 Offloading your data onto an external hard drive is (and will continue to be) one of the most effective ways to backup your data. While it has several inherent disadvantages, you have complete control over your data and privacy. Furthermore, you are not constrained by your internet speed, allowing you to easily transfer large files between devices. Hard drives can easily last for several years if stored properly, long enough for you to transfer the data to a newer one when the time comes. Remember that "the cloud" is just a fancy term for "someone else's computer," and nothing beats offline backups even today.
 Google Photos allows you to download all of your photos and videos to your PC, Android phone, iPhone, and Mac. You can also save the photos on your computer or a hard drive by transferring them to other services such as Dropbox.