The India skipper Virat Kohli is unarguably one of the greatest batsmen in modern-day cricket. He has played several match-winning innings for his team across formats.
Apart from inspiring the younger generation with his impeccable batting skills and intelligent leadership on the field, Kohli has made sure that his retirement plans are well intact.
Well, you will be surprised to know that a large part of Virat’s massive income, which put him on Forbes’ global list of highest-paid athletes in the world, comes from his well-thought-out investments.
From his fine dining restaurant in New Delhi to fashion wear brand, Wrogn, Virat has invested in several start-ups, just like other successful sports personalities.
Here’s take a look at some of the famous brands owned by Virat Kohli.
Known for his stylish looks and unique fashion sense, Virat Kohli owns a stake in famous Clothing and Accessories brand, Wrogn.
Wrogn is primarily a platform for graphic T-shirts, shirts and lightweight denim jackets, worn with cuffed chinos and jeans. It was founded by Anjana Reddy, Universal Sportsbiz Pvt Ltd.
Ahead of the 11th edition of Indian Premier League, Wrogn also became the brand sponsor of Royal Challengers Bangalore, the team Kohli captains.
Virat Kohli is rated as one of most fittest athletes in the world. With his perfect lean body and strict diet plan, the 32-year-old batsman has inspired several youngsters across the the globe.
In order to motivate other people to stay fit and healthy, Kohli launched ‘Chisel’, a Bengaluru-based chain of gym and fitness centres back in May 2015. He invested Rs 90 crore in this set-up.
There is no doubt in saying that the Indian captain has a huge fanbase across the globe and in an attempt to reduce some distance between him and his fans, Virat had opened a luxurious and fine dining place ‘Nueva’ in New Delhi back in 2017.
If you’re a true Kohli fan, then you must visit his fancy restaurant in RK Puram, Delhi to taste some lip-smacking dishes and mind-blowing cocktails.
The restaurant has quite an impressive and diverse menu with dishes fetched from all parts of the world, including Japan, Italy, and South America.
Virat Kohli’s first investment came at the age of 25 when he became the co-owner of the Indian Super League (ISL) team FC Goa. The star cricketer spent a hefty price of Rs 1 crore (approximately) to own less than 25 percent stake of the franchise.
Kohli often shows off his football skills during the training sessions with his Indian teammates.
A London-based tech start-up, Sport Convo was Kohli’s second business venture after Goa FC. This platform allows all the sports fans across the world to meet and talk about their favourite games and players.
Kohli shares the ownership of this venture with footballer Gareth Bale and entrepreneur Vishal Patel.
The likes of Rohit Sharma, Hardik Pandya and Ajinkya Rahane have seen endorsing the brand.
Next on the list is UAE Royals, a tennis team based in Dubai that competes International Premier Tennis League (IPTL).
Another sports franchise owned by Virat Kohli is Pro Wrestling League (PWL) team, Bengaluru Yodhas. JSW Group is the co-owner of this team.
Bengaluru Yoddhas are a strong team comprising the likes of Narsingh Pancham Yadav (74kg), Bajrang Punia (65kg), Sandeep Tomar (57kg), Ukraine’s Pavlo Oliiynik (97kg), and 2012 London Olympics silver medallist Davit Modzmanashvili (125kg).
In June 2016, Virat launched another new venture ‘Stepathlon Kids’ that will help children under the age group of 8-12 years to adopt a healthy lifestyle and make them aware of various health-related problems.
With its annual 30-day virtual race, Stepathlon Kids urges the kids to take 15,000 steps a day.
Kohli’s One8 collection is available at all the Puma stores across India and on in.puma.com.
One of Virat Kohli’s renowned hospitality ventures, One8 Commune, is the master franchise of One8’s restaurant chain. Located in World Mark Aerocity in Delhi, this outlet is a great place for a casual outing with your friends or a special brunch with family.