The secret to radiant skin and healthy life lies in your kitchen. An assortment of superfoods that are easily available in the market can work wonder for your glowing skin and offer good health return as well.
During the summer season, the body requires more fluids. Consuming enough water and fluids helps stimulate blood circulation, keeping the skin cleansed of toxins. Hence, having water-content-rich fruits and vegetables like watermelon and cucumber can help hydrate the body and skin.
Here are five superfoods you must include in your daily diet.
Probiotic Yogurts contain a variety of active bacteria cultures that aid in digestion. Lactobacillus Acidophilus is one bacterium that aids digestion in the small intestine. Lactic Acid, one of the main nutrients in Yogurt forms a key ingredient in several skincare products. Lactic Acid is a great exfoliate and skin moisturizer. It works as an anti-ageing agent by reducing the visibility of wrinkles and preventing new wrinkles and fine lines from forming.
Yoghurt is also replete with Zinc, Vitamins B2, B5 and B12. Vitamin B2, or Riboflavin, helps keep the skin hydrated, protects the skin cells from the damage caused by free radicals, helps in cellular regeneration, and plays an important role in the manufacturing of healthy cellular fats. 1 cup of yoghurt offers you 20 to 30 per cent of our daily recommended amount of Riboflavin.
Eating hydrating fruits and vegetables, such as Cucumber, is an excellent way to add to our overall hydration levels too, which will in turn promote glowing skin.
Well known for their aphrodisiac qualities, Saltwater molluscs - Oysters which live in marine habitats such as Bays and Oceans, are excellent sources of Zinc and other trace minerals like Copper, Iron and Selenium that are needed in small amounts in the body. The above-mentioned minerals present in Oysters have a lot to offer in terms of improving immunity and skin health.
Zinc maintains the skin’s defence against infection and promotes wound healing. Of all foods, Oysters contain the maximum Zinc per serving.
The trace minerals present in Oysters have skin-enhancing qualities. Copper improves skin elasticity and reduces wrinkles, whereas a deficiency in Selenium may make the skin more sensitive to oxidative stress.
Salmon is one of the most nutritious foods on the planet. This exotic fish is not only tasty and widely available, but also loaded with nutrients which reduce risk factors for several diseases. Special proteins available in Salmon promote radiant skin and fatty acids, such as Omega-3 reduce inflammation and provide anti-ageing protection.
Salmon is not only good for your skin, but they’re also heart-healthy.
Berries can be grown in your backyard, collected from the wild, or bought in Superstores. There are many varieties of berries available, from the ever-popular Strawberry to the weirdly named Raspberry, berries are classified as “Superfoods” for a good reason.
Be it Strawberries, Blueberries, Raspberries, or Blackberries, they are known to contain Vitamin C which helps prevent inflammation and acne breakouts while keeping our skin healthy.
Eating natural and organic food items regularly can improve the skin's health by keeping it hydrated and youthful for a longer time. The daily diet must consist of fresh fruits and vegetables, as much as possible. At the same time, one should reduce the intake of red meat, excessive fat and sugary products.
Also, make sure you don’t give in to your unhealthy food cravings as it can result in dull skin.
(The article has been shared by Shahnaz Husain, CMD of Shahnaz Husain Group.)