Real Madrid are reportedly contemplating waiting for Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) striker Kylian Mbappe in 2024 rather than signing Tottenham Hotspur's Harry Kane this summer.
 According to Spanish outlet Relevo, Madrid manager Carlo Ancelotti and president Florentino Perez are at odds over a potential move for Kane. That's because the latter's personal priority to sign PSG's Mbappe in 2024 when he will become a free agent.
 Real Madrid are on the lookout for a new centre-forward following Karim Benzema's departure to Saudi giants Al Ittihad. They're preparing to swoop for Kane, 29, and are reportedly willing to pay €80 million for the England captain.
 Kane has long been regarded as one of Europe's deadliest frontmen, and he was at his usual best this season. He bagged 32 goals in 49 games across competitions and has just one year remaining in his contract.
 However, Real Madrid are long-term admirers of Kylian Mbappe, and they tried signing the Parisian striker last year. The Frenchman was expected to arrive at the Santiago Bernabeu last summer, but he snubbed a move to Los Merengues at the eleventh hour. Instead, he signed a new two-year deal with the option of a further year at the Parc des Princes.
 That, though, hasn't stopped talk of a potential transfer to Madrid. It has recently been reported that he has apologised to Perez for snubbing the La Liga giants. The Frenchman's apology has been reportedly accepted, and Los Blancos' president is prepared to move for the 23-year-old in 2024.
 Kylian Mbappe is likely to become a free agent next year, as he reportedly has no intentions to trigger the one-year extension. The young forward has been in superb form this season, scoring 41 goals and providing ten assists in 43 games across competitions.
 Kylian Mbappe stunned many when he signed a new contract with PSG in May 2022. It was heavily expected that the Frenchman would become a Real Madrid player in the summer, but he decided to remain in the French capital instead.
 The Parisian forward explained his decision and attributed it to wanting to succeed, being a child of Paris. He said (via GOAL) in November:
“Of course, it was easier to go to Madrid. But I have this ambition. I’m French. I’m a child of Paris, and to win in Paris, it’s something really special—really special. It writes your name in the history of your country for life. You can stay here to have success. "
However, Mbappe hasn't seemed overly satisfied with life at PSG since signing his new deal.
 He has had a fractious relationship with fellow attacker Neymar this season. The Frenchman also had issues with the Ligue 1 champions' overuse of him in a promotional video for their 2023-24 season tickets.