Of the many things that we take for granted, availability of fuel is a vital need that we ignore to value to the amount that it demands attention. Price hikes and scarcity are not a new phenomenon but what if this is to prolong for as long as it slaps the reality of everyday dependency on our face? 'Nerungi Vaa Muthamidathe' is a movie about what we otherwise consider to be lesser concern, but is as essential to our daily life, as the basic necessities, for the attachment we have created to fuel. But not only has diesel drawn the limelight, some of the social injustices and life after that, are also added in subtly.
The story is based in and around port city of Karaikal. A couple from different financial and religion-based communities find the perfect match in each other. Obviously, this is vehemently opposed in their village, and they have no option but to run for life. A youth from an ostensibly well to do family strays to follow his heart, oppose his father and drive trucks and lorries, ferrying goods for the thrill. A girl from an affluent background refuses to understand her mother, for the mystery of who he father is. These three are linked in the common thread of travel.
The couple Maha and Pichai are tracked down by relatives, primarily for honour killing. The young girl Maya discovers the truth behind her father's mystery as an injustice to her mother; but when she goes to meet her, it is already too late, and add to that, Maya falls prey to a road accident. And the lorry driver Chandru on the other hand runs headlong into deep trouble, for smuggling two thousand litres of diesel amidst fuel crisis, getting him eligible to be sentenced for crime at a national level. Where and how the journey ends is the story of 'Nerungi Vaa Muthamidathe'.
Pretty Piaa plays Maya, who is risen by her single mother played by Viji Chandrashekar. Maya never understands until the end, why the identity of her mother is a haze. The confusion in her face and pented up anger is apparent on her face, through all the scenes. And finally when she unleashes the truth, there is clear tone of understanding. Her deft at wearing the right expression compensates for the lack of dialogues for her role, and her face speaks for herself. Viji, on the other hand, has an intense character. Her acting is typical of how a confident woman leads her life and those of others, despite heinous oddities.
Shruthi Hariharan is only a few movies old, but her skills can be gauged amply by her previous Kannada outing, in the award winning 'Lucia'. Shruthi plays Maha, of a higher class, who falls in love with Pichai from a very low stratum. Both show immense dedication to each other and courage to face the cruel world together, mutually blinded by love. Their acting in proper understanding of the situation, willing for a positive change and patience, is smart.
Shabeer drives the travel forward, as Chandru the lorry driver. Despite being the son of the owner of a petrol bunk, played by Y Gee Mahendra, Shabeer's screen character chooses to quit education, and drive lorry to his whims. As the father, Y Gee Mahendra gets more and more angry at each level. But he also cares in the end like a father would always be. Cool, confident, composed yet menacingly violent when the time demands - that is all that makes up Chandru, and is played to perfection by Shabeer.
The is an intense story with many characters and loops, but the sole reason it is appealingly presented is the perfection in cinematography, editing, screenplay and direction. The story is the journey of three different families and Vinod Bharathi takes you along in the beatiful journey through his lens. There are sequences where the scenes shunt back and forth between the past and present, and if not for Sabu Joseph's class editing at these and also in the journey otherwise, it would not be easy to understand the crux of the story. Kudos to Lakshmy Ramakrishnan for a very thoughtfully crafted, meticulously planned and beautifully narrated story, that is first of its kind in Kollywood. Although there are no run-around sort of duets, the film essentially needs music as its fourth pillar and Madley Blues have done a commendable job at that. The breezy movie is visually appealing, thanks to the thoughtful art direction and camera.
No running-around duets, no unnatural fight sequences, optimum emotions, and subtly put strong social messages - there is a lot to write on the positive aspects of the movie that seems almost entirely perfect. Not only is it a journey that is enjoyable by all, despite the absence of regular masala, it is also a strong movie that highlights many social concerns including smuggling, casteism and violence on women, apart from household concerns like misunderstanding of parents by children and confident women leading their lives against heinous oddities. Not only have problems been pointed out, they end in an amicable solution, which makes the story a practical take.
Although nearly everything is perfect, there are a few portions of the movie which could have been explained better, for the lack of which, they stand out as sore thumb in sharp contrast against the otherwise wholesome story. Unanswered questions include running away of Maya's friend at the mention of police, and also the identity of his parents that is mysteriously under wraps. The question of the future of the lovey-dovey couple that eloped is also left unanswered. Lack of masala is compensated for in the magical sudden transformation of Maya's emotions in the end.
However, these small hitches do not hamper the otherwise perfect picture at large. Based on a journey in a lorry, rolling out under the title inspired by the lines on many such beasts, 'Nerungi Vaa Muthamidathe' is a path-breaking movie in Tamil cinema history.