Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, India's first home minister, had called the IAS India's steel frame, referring to the bureucratic structure it was supposed to provide to hold up the new nation. But many now think this steel frame is rusting and inefficiency and corruption have corroded India's bureaucracy which needs to be made more efficient and accountable to people.
Interestingly, the examinations for ICS were conducted only in London. The age limit was 18 to 23 years. In 1864, ICS got its first Indian officer, Satyendranath Tagore, a brother of Rabindranath Tagore. From 1922, the ICS examination began to be held in India also, first in Allahabad and later in Delhi.
The ICS was the steel frame of the British colonial government, its key appratus that ran India. In fact, much before Patel, British prime minister David Lloyd George had called it a steel frame in 1922. Jawaharlal Nehru once criticised the ICS by calling it “neither Indian, nor civil, nor a service”. However, the same ICS morphed into the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) a year before India became independent. Nirmal Kumar Mukarji, a member of the final batch recruited to the ICS, who retired as Cabinet Secretary in April 1980, was the last IAS who had originally joined as an ICS.
Patel had campaigned vigorously for the ICS to continue in another form after Independence. At a Provincial Premiers’ Conference in 1946 to decide the future of the All India Services, Patel said that the ICS officers were "useful instruments" that would "also serve as a liaison between the Provinces and the Government of India and introduce certain amount of brashness and vigor in the administration both of the Centre and the Provinces". The belief that such officers would have a national outlook made the case stronger for retaining ICS post-independence. The idea that an elite bureaucratic class would attract the best talent and that they will have a sense of independence and impartiality were other factors.
"Globally, there is a robust, positive relationship between the quality of government and economic progress. But India has experienced rapid growth in spite of below-par governance. Indeed, the quality of India’s public-sector institutions in particular has struggled to keep pace with the country’s rapid economic advancement. As the adage goes, 'India grows at night while the government sleeps'.” write analysts Milan Vaishanav and Saksham Khosla of Carnegie Endowment in their study on the IAS.
It is the entitlements that come with the job that make lakhs of candidates compete for a few hundred IAS jobs every year. Becoming an IAS officer is seen as a ticket to power, money and status. "Those who have come into contact with the country’s bureaucracy have long criticized it for being cumbersome, slow, inefficient, and often venal. Indeed, its infirmities are so widely known that the Indian bureaucracy is the subject of unstinting pop culture mockery," Vasihnav and Khosla write.
Several factors have played a role in what many see as rusting of the steel frame of India, two of which stand out: constant political interference and a lack of specialisation or expertise. These factors are responsible for the widespread perception of a corrupt and inefficient bureaucracy.
Political interefrence that creates politician-bureaucrat nexus also breeds corruption. Lack of independence due to constant political interference turns out to be a major handicap for the IAS which demoralises officers. Constant transfers, often within months, from one department to another prevent IAS officers from gaining any domain expertise. When technology is rapidly changing the world, governance must step up to new roles but within the IAS it's difficult to create officers with domain expertise.
Various calls for reforms in the IAS recommend better systems for remuneration, performance appraisal and transfer and more independence. The government tried an innovative approach, the lateral entry, to fill the talent gap at the upper echeleons of the IAS by recruiting esperts from the private sector.
In 2018 , the lateral entry of experts from the private sector was started by roping in the UPSC as a recruiting agency. However, the government has been moving slowly, recruiting only 38 officers till 2022.
Lateral entrants were recruited in two tranches — 8 joint secretaries in 2019, and 3 joint secretaries, 18 directors and 9 deputy secretaries in 2022. NITI Aayog has also inducted lateral entrants and young professionals as contractual employees. Among the high-profile hires was Ramanan Ramanathan of Tata Consultancy Services who joined in 2017 to head the Atal Innovation Mission. Ministry of Commerce and Industry appointed former vice-president of Capgemini India Aashish Chandorkar as a counsellor in India’s permanent mission in the World Trade Organization — a post usually offered to Indian Trade Service officers. Amar Dubey, who joined the civil aviation ministry as a joint secretary in 2019, is an alumnus of IIT-Bombay and IIM-Ahmedabad and was a partner at KPMG.
When the government advertised 10 JS-level posts in 2018, more than 6,000 candidates applied. In 2021, there were 2,031 applicants for 31 posts, including three joint secretaries.
Satyananda Mishra, former secretary of the Department of Personnel and Training, told ET last September that his main concern is the high number of applicants from the private sector, adding that the scheme should not be expanded to accommodate anyone and everyone. “Career bureaucrats won’t mind 10-15 private executives joining as joint secretaries. Nor will this scheme create any controversy regarding reservation as these are posts in specific domain areas and are temporary in nature. The real question is whether the best minds of the private sector are applying for this job,” he said.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi tried to institute several new measures for the IAS such as the 360 degree performance appraisal. This was a big shift that took place under the Modi government of which little had been revealed or said. "But in a quiet and definitive way, it has changed the rules of bureaucratic play. At the core of this shift is the 360-degree review or appraisal system to select, promote and even indirectly admonish officials. This essentially reduces the reliance on annual confidential reports as the key basis for shortlisting and empanelment. This, in turn, has a significant bearing on the final selection of a bureaucrat to a top job," ET had reported in 2017.
But little has happened by way of radical systemic changes in the IAS. In 2021, Modi sppoke of the generalist nature of the IAS in the Parliament: “Sab kuch babu hi karenege. IAS ban gaye matlab woh fertilizer ka kaarkhana bhi chalayenge. Yeh kaun si badi takat bana kar rakh di humne? Babuon ke haath mein desh de karke hum kya karne waale hain? (Will bureaucrats do everything? Will they also run fertilizer factories? What kind of power we have created? What would we accomplish by putting the whole of India in the hands of bureaucrats?)” he said.
Yet Modi has been greatly dependent on the bureaucrats not only for implementing his ambitious welfare and infrastructure schemes but also for heading the government. He has included many retired bureaucrats in his Cabinet such as External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Petroleum Minister Hardeep Puri, Power Minister RK Singh and Railways Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw.