By Prachi Bhuchar, Monalisa Arthur: In the session, 'Is dynasty a burden or boon' at the 11th India Today Conclave on March 17, a young panel of South Asian leaders debated the pros and cons of being born into political dynasties.
 Namal Rajapaksa, MP, Sri Lanka and son of the current Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa became the youngest MP in 2010 at 23 and represents the third generation of Rajapaksas.
 He said, "Merely belonging to a political family is not enough to ensure success. In a democracy representatives are elected and one does not inherit office through succession. " He added that while belonging to a political family meant easy access to a party ticket, it did not necessarily guarantee success.
 Making a rare public appearance, Bangladesh's Sajeeb Wazed, Special Adviser to Awami League and son of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina traced his entry into politics by citing the absolute chaos in his country post the 2001 elections which compelled him to return from the United States to draw attention to the wave of atrocities being perpetuated by the opposition party, the Bangladesh National Party.
 He said, "Bangladesh is a classic text book case study of how dynasties can be a curse or a boon. We have two political dynasties in our country, one was started by my family, and the other was founded by our first military dictator who took power by force. " According to him leadership can't be taught. It has to be learnt inherently. "A bad leader confers the same bad traits to his dynasty. "
Closer home, BJD MP Kalikesh Singh Deo drew on the recently concluded Uttar Pradesh elections where two young leaders from eminent political families were tested; one succeeded, one failed. Can we conclude that merely a surname caused one to lose? He asked.
 He added that being his father's son helped him get a ticket and access to funds and party support but that was not enough to bring in the votes. He won by a margin of 25,000 votes in his second outing-a clear indication that it takes more than a surname to win voters.
 He added that, "The control a political family has over the inner democracy of a party is worrying. It may create a cult-like situation where the leader fails to carry voters forward but will not allow anyone else to work. " Voters according to him are discerning and eventually the decision to vote a person into power rests with them irrespective of family or surname.