At the reception area of a South Delhi hotel are three bags with 30 T-shirts that have the letters ‘C’ and ‘P’ intertwined to form the sign of infinity. Team Cheteshwar Pujara has planned to dress identically as they expect to experience similar emotions at the Feroz Shah Kotla on Friday morning. On the India-Australia Test eve, they share the excitement of witnessing India’s long-time No. 3’s 100th Test, celebrating his limitless thirst to occupy the crease and boundless desire to score runs.
 Father and in-laws, mama and bua, extended family and friends have flown in batches from Rajkot and around, to soak in the sight of their ‘Çhintu’ becoming just the 13th Indian to have a Test count in three digits. With 7,000-plus runs, he is eighth on India’s all-time list of Test run-getters.
 Most in the group have seen him from the day he was born, others grew with him and a doctor couple has been in the support system since his mother’s untimely death. There are also the Pabaris – his wife’s family – for their son-in-law’s big day. They have played a big role in easing Cheteshwar’s life, unburdening him of his various responsibilities, giving him the extra leeway to focus on the game.
 Father Arvind sits restlessly on the sofa in the sitting area of the hotel lobby. He offers tea to guests, directs them to the receptionist so that they can collect room keys. Wife Puja has travelled to the team hotel as daughter Aditi, 4, wanted to meet father who is having a busy day. After his usual long arduous net session, Cheteshwar faced a crowded press conference. By now, he would have answered hundreds of questions about his 100th. But Aditi’s ‘Where’s Daddy? ’ query too needed to be addressed.
 The last few days have been hectic for Puja. She talks about being on the phone constantly – scheduling 30 tickets, coordinating pick-ups and drops from the airport, planning lodging and boarding, and also finalising the ‘ínfinity T-shirts’.
 Sitting next to Pujara Sr is Cheteshwar’s mama Bipin Kanani. He was very close to his late sister and also his talented nephew. “She had a lot of confidence in Chintu’s talent. There were times she would need extra money, which she had to borrow. She would say, ‘Chintu would play one game and he will be able to clear all our debts,’” he says before attending a new guest and directing the bell boy to take care of their luggage.
 Arvind greets the new entrants affectionately. They go back a long way. They say they couldn’t have missed being in Delhi for anything.
 Dr Nirbhay Shah and Dr Saloni Shah have seen the ups and downs of the Pujara family. “I once read in papers that a 13-year-old had scored a 300 and soon realised that the kid was the same that I would train every day. Me and Arvindbhai became friends, we are now a family. I have seen the family in the worst of times and how they rose,” he says. An orthopaedic and a sports injury expert, Dr Nirbhay would be one of the main decision-makers when Cheteshwar had to take some tough calls after the treatment of his hamstring injuries.
 That is one more reason for the sign on the common T-shirt.