"Competition is always a good thing. It forces us to do our best. A monopoly renders people complacent and satisfied with mediocrity," said noted author Nancy Randolph Pearcey. There is competition in all spheres of social and state life. Large states compete for mineral resources, state borders, or for domination, with an account of economic gains and losses. They try to outdo others by developing the science of knowledge and try to figure out who will be the first to reach and take their place in space in the competion. But of course conflict is not desirable when competing and it's the only downside to the competition.
 Competition has existed not only in the human race but also in the animal kingdom since the creation of the world. It can be said that there is no beginning of competition, we are born with competition. When we enter school life, we first see the competition. But this competition does not start at school. Even taking a place in the womb has to be competitive. This means we are inherently part of the competition. Those who do not participate in this competition will have to fall behind. This is why the English philosopher Herbert Spencer called evolutionism 'survival for the fittest'. In other words, only those who are qualified will survive.
 The current situation testifies that it is not uncommon for those who are reluctant to compete to endanger their very existence. The current corona virus has created a recession not only in Bangladesh but all over the world and the field of competition has become more intense.
 Governments as well as the business community of different countries are in trouble for their production and supply. But even after that, if one leads with sincerity, through proper management, if one can have self-confidence, there is no danger of failure.
 Remember, there is competition in all areas of professional life, be it clerical jobs, teaching, journalism, manufacturing or agricultural production. Patience is another qualities that requires in this age of competition. Patience is not only a human quality, it is also a medicine for people in dangerous situations. Therefore, patience has been given utmost importance in the guidance and advice of religions. No matter how bad the current Corona situation is, keep in mind that patience, dedication, competence and proper management can help us to get rid of this phase.