Ravi Shastri and Virat Kohli have been two peas in a pod, and this fact isn't hidden from anyone in Indian cricket. Be it the dressing room atmosphere, the preparations, or the way they wanted the Indian cricket team to play, Kohli and Shastri had very similar ideas from the first day.
 However, when Shastri arrived as the Indian team's director, he didn't know many other players but MS Dhoni, having worked with him back in 2007. Speaking of his first task, Shastri said that identifying a player who could 'walk the talk' was at the top of his priority list. Fortunately for Shastri, it was Kohli who fit the bill and was ready to step into Dhoni's shoes.
 "Barring interviews on television (with players), I knew nobody except probably MS Dhoni because I had worked with him in 2007. There was nobody from my generation, there was nobody from the immediate generation after me. For instance, I had a connect with players of the previous decade - Sachin, Rahul, Sourav, Anil. That generation was gone. So, once I came on board, my first challenge was to identify someone who could walk the talk and I found in Virat Kohli the guy with the character, game and personality to step into Dhoni's shoes," Shastri said in an interview with the Times of India.
 2014 was also the year when Kohli had returned from that acrimonious tour of England where he had flopped with the bat. However, with Shastri at the helm, the talismanic batsman produced one of his finest displays in the sport on the tour of Australia.
 "Virat was reeling from that tour of England because he hardly got runs. He was in a state of shock the way things had panned out. But you could see there was still enough there to get him going. Once he was back on his feet, there would be no looking back.
 "I began watching him very closely. The more closely I saw him, I could see his sense of confidence returning back with each day. Those initial two-three months went in getting to know the team better. We began talking a lot, on various issues - batting techniques, the path forward, lot of things. And I think, it really came to the surface in Australia, when he finally bought into everything we discussed. He was absolutely ready to walk that talk - not just in the way he played his game but the way we wanted the team to play.
 Shastri also delved into the style of play that Kohli wanted, not just for himself but for the team too. As a matter of fact, the philosophy of Shastri was also very similar. Though India did not get the desired results from the Australia tour, the series did mark the real arrival of a superstar in the form of Virat.
 "What was that way? A very aggressive style of cricket, in your face cricket, where you were never out there to please others. The whole focus was to do whatever it takes, do whatever is right, within the laws of the game, to win. He set the bar really high on that tour, got four centuries and a fifty.
 "We lost that series 2-0 but I still remember Alan Border walking up to me at the end of the series in Sydney and said: "Rav, well done man. Not many teams bat out the last day to save Test matches at the colosseums, which is Melbourne and Sydney.
 "And mind you, this after a close first Test in which he got a hundred in each innings and really cemented the way he wanted to play in Australia - a good, aggressive brand of cricket. The way we went for the chase of 360-plus on the final day of that Test showed what kind of cricket we wanted to play. "
While Shastri's tenure as Team India's director ended in 2016, he marked his return in 2017 after Anil Kumble's controversial exit as head coach. Over the next four years, the Indian team scaled new heights with the duo of Shastri-Kohli in charge, before the latter decided that it was time to move on.