Catch up on touristy pictures from across the globe. Here are some handy suggestions for Indian travellers.
Thank You, Monkeys Monkeys enjoy fruit during Monkey Feast Festival in Lopburi province, Thailand in Nov, 2022. The festival is an annual tradition in Lopburi, which is held to show gratitude to the monkeys for bringing in tourism.
Touristy Advice: Local festivals that worship animals can be found aplenty in South East Asia. If you are travelling to a country like Thailand where monkeys can be spotted at some landmarks, avoid feeding them your soft drink and processed chips in non-designated areas. Such unattended feeding is not enjoyed by most other visitors.
Tourists receive instructions before sliding down one of the world's most extended zip lines over the Tiquina Strait in Lake Titicaca, Bolivia, in Nov, 2022.
Touristy Advice: In a new destination, enjoying adventure sports may seem very lucrative to you. Ensure that you follow instructions to the hilt. If you are unable to understand the accent or language of the instructor, ask for assistance without hesitation and without delay. Helpdesk is always available.
Bicyclists in Sao Paulo's monumental, 400-acre Ibirapuera Park celebrates street art, street noise and street food cede. Only occasionally, to high design, high rollers and high-end restaurants, has long attracted migrants and dreamers. Making it a great place to explore the country's kaleidoscopic variety of regional cuisines and musical genres.
Touristy Advice: Enjoy cycling trails wherever you get a chance. Local tourists can take a guided route and enrol for a peek into the tourism of the destination on an emissionfree bicycle. It is cost-effective and very enjoyable.
Xmas Fun A couple walks past the Christmas fair on Red square near the Spasskaya Tower of the Kremlin and the Saint Basil Cathedral in Moscow.
Touristy Advice: If you are visiting a winter destination, then prepare for clothing as per the country's fashion quotient. You can make some of your overcoat purchases in the country after reaching there too and enjoy local discounts.
'Acqua Alta' A tourist steps in floodwater in St. Marks Square in Venice, Italy in Nov, 2022. The frequency of flooding, known as "acqua alta," has been increasing steadily in Venice in recent years.
Touristy Advice: Visiting Venice this season? Then make sure you know the tide timings when the city's low-lying areas get submerged with rising sea level. Most Indians do not like to get their feet wet so make your waterproof footwear plans beforehand. Ever heard of climate action -here's one example visible right here.
It's Snowing People take a chairlift at the Val Thorens French resort on its opening day on November 26, 2022.
Touristy Advice: Made plans to witness snow destination this December in France? You will be in for hot chocolate treats and trendy fur caps. If you are travelling with kids, ensure they are fully geared for the low temperatures. It may be sunny but the chilly winds are a precaution you must be prepared with.
Year-ender Plans: People watch the sunset on the beach in Le Carbet, on the French Caribbean island of Martinique.
Touristy Advice: Enjoying sunsets in a picturesque destination is on everyone's wish list this year-ender. When you take pictures out in the open, ensure you take permission or approval if some other tourists are in your picture frame. Some visitors are so gung-ho that when you seek permission to take a photograph, they willingly pose with you as a friendly gesture.