[Shri Umanath]
attributed to the heavy imposition of taxation. It furher says that cotton goods and cotton yarn particularly marked up. I am mentioning all this to show that it is a well-known fact, and the Minister, his deputy and the Government know, that the prices have risen and yet they come here and deny it to the entire House, to the entire country, by saying that there is no increase in prices. Is it not chicanery, unheard of chicanery, on the part of the Minister to have denied the existence of the rise in prices which is there for everyone to see? I say it is chicanery and irresponsibility of the highest order and effrontery on the part of the Minister to tell us so when people are suffering and struggling to adjust their budget, which they find it very dffiicult to manage, because of the sudden and heavy rise in prices. I can very well understand the Finance Minister admitting that it is true there is a rise in prices and then saying the reasons are such and such and "we are going to take such and such steps to remedy them", but this sort of playfulness on the part of the Government and the Finance Mi. nister in dealing with the problems of the people must be stopped here and now. The hon. Finance Minister.
Shri K. D. Malaviya: Let us come to oil.
Shri Umanath: I will speak mines and oil as well as on the general questions arising out of that. The Finance Minister had stated the other day that we will be meeting the fate deserved by us. Yes. What are the The lessons of the general election? lessons are that the Congress Party out with a reduced majority. That is what the people have done; they have reduced the majority of Congress. And our strength has been increased from 29 to 34 today. This is the lesson of the general election, and if the hon, Finance Minister says that this is going to be the indication of the future, well, I accept that future indication and I accept the
future fate which will be, after some time, the day will not be far off when. the Finance Minister will be put here in the opposition, and that too to one of the back benches, and comrade A. K. Gopalan and others will be there in the ministerial benches. That. time will not be far off.
So, I will repeat at the end that the Minister should be frank and honest when dealing with the problems of the suffering and teeming millions. and must be prepared to admit whenever there is any rise in prices. He: should be responsible enough when making statements on issues like rise: in prices as the difficulties of the people is not a jesting question. All these things must be stopped and proper action should be taken at an early date.
Shri Kamalnayan Bajaj (Wardha): Will that verdict be by bullet or bal-lot?
Shri Umanath: It will be by ballot. If the verdict of 1962 is a verdict of the bullet, then my verdict will also be a verdict of the bullet. But if the verdict of 1962 has been a peaceful verdict; by the very same peaceful verdict, the Finance Minister will be here and our people will be there.
Shri P. C. Borooah (Sibsagar): Mr. Chairman, Sir, I congratulate the hon. Minister of Mines and Fuel for the various achievements he has been able to bring out in the various sections under his Ministry. From the Report of the Ministry circulated to us it has been found that in 1960-61 the total production of coal in the country was 54.6 million tons and the production in 1961-62 remained almost at the same level. Out of this 54.6 million tons, the private sector has raised about 44.5 million tons while the public sector has raised only about 9 million tons.
The target for coal production in. the Second Plan was 60 million tons. So, there is a shortfall of about 6 million tons. While the private sector collieries fulfilled their quota of production, the public sector has failed to do so. I do not know how the hon.
VAISAKHA 26, 1884 (SAKA) for Grants
Member who just preceded me feels about this. We are moving more on an ideological approach and not much on a practical approach.
The requirement of coal at the end of the Third Plan is placed at 95 million tons.
The target for Coal production in the Second Plan was about 60 million tons and there is a shortfall of about 6 million tons. While the private sector collieries fulfilled their quota of production, the public sector collieries could not do so. The requirement of coal at the end of the Third Plan is about 95 million tons. This is exclusive of 2.5 million tons required for the projected fourth steel plant at Bokaro. Compared with the performance of the Second Plan, this target of 95 million tons will be found to be very ambitious. This means additional production of 35 million tons over the target of 60 million tons in the Second Plan and about 41 million tons in terms of actual production that we have reached in the Second Plan.
If the collieries of the public sector cannot achieve their targets and the private sector is not allowed to ´expand, there will be considerable shortfall and as a result the country will be confronted with serious difficulties. It is, therefore, necessary that the target for coal production in the private sector should not be fixed only to commensurate the past output but they should also be given scope for further expansion. This is more so when the Government is thinking of raising the target of coal production in the Third Plan to about 110 million tons.
It is estimated that while the private sector programme will involve a capital outlay of Rs. 60 crores with a foreign exchange component of Rs. 38 crores, the capital to be invested for additional 20 million ton; in the public sector will be Rs. 103 crores. It is a well known fact that the country's resources are very strained and
it should be our duty to see that the best use is made of our available recources. Viewed in this context, 1 think, the private sector should be allowed to expand to the maximum extent.
Secondly, merely increasing the coal priduction will not solve our problems. The inadequacy of transport is also to be removed. The question of inadequacy of transport comes up before this House almost every alternate day. When a question is put to the hon. Minister of Mines and Fuel, he would say helplessly that it is the Ministry of Railways which has failed to transport the coal to the industries. Again, when the question is put to the Ministry of Railways, he will say, "My railway is capable of carrying all the coal that is available to it." As a result of this our Minister of Industry had to play the part of a helpless onlooker and we, the Memhers, get bewildered. This sort of thing should not be allowed to continue and something should be done so. that we can get our transport facilities enhanced.
It is also suggested that the industrie; situated far away from the coalbearing areas might be encouraged to use furnance oil. But the cost of furnance oil as comapred to coal is very high on account of the high the Central tax. Besides, changing machinery to enable them to use furnance oil in place of coal is also a of costly affair. Yet, as a measure inducement to make the industry go for the use of furnance oil, the duty on furnace oil should be abolished. This may save coal for these industries which need coal most.
The qulity of coal avaliable in Assam is of a very inferior quality, particularly that coming from the Khasi Hills. They are all surface coals and are available only in powder form. This coal has been thrust upon the tea in-4707
[Shri P. C. Borooah]
dustry and the industry fails to heat up the machinery to proper temperature; as a result of which the quality of tea gets deteriorated. May I request the hon. Minister to take some steps to improve the quality of Assam coal either by establishing some coke oven factories or some coal washeries in the coal-bearing areas of Assam?
Regarding price, while there was a revision of price last year for coal produced in all regions of the country, Assam coal was left out. In Assam the policy of 'lower the quality of coal the higher the price and vice versa' is, I think, still followed. The Khasi coal though the most inferior coal is the most costliest. At the same time, pilferage and loss in transit are also the highest there. So, I say that the hon. Minister will look into this matter also and see whether it is possible to rationalise the price of Assam coal.
The Survey Reports say that there is a huge deposit of high quality coal in Garo Hills in Assam. Only account of no transport the area has not been worked so far. May I request the hon. Minister to take up this matter with the Railway Ministry and see that a railway line is extended up to the foot of Garo hills and take other necessary steps to open this area and make the production of coal go ahead to cope with our demands?
Now coming to oil, the consumption of oil in our country is extremely low. It is only four gallons per head per annum against 16 gallons per head per annum in Ceylon. We are much behind even of Ceylon. It is 53 gallons in Japan, 162 gallons in the UK and about 663 gallons in USA. With the progress of industrialisation it will keep on increasing and according to the estimate given in the Third Plan it is likely to go to the tune of 12 millon tons. It was 7 million tons at the end of the Second Plan. But
the latest indictions are that the requirement may be more than this. The requirements in 1961 were 8.23 million tons. According to the Oil Advisory Committee's Report the requirements will be bout 14 million tons in 1966. This excludes the products consumed by the refineries themselves and the quantity lost in the process of refining which is estimated at about 8 per cent of the requirement will mean another one million tons. Thus altogether it will be about 15 million tons that will be necessary in 1966. As against the demand of 15 million tons our refining capacity today is about 11 million tons and so there will be a shortfall of three or four million tons.
Regarding exploration and production of oil, it is being undertaken by two agencies. One is the Oil and Natural Gas Commission and the other is Oil India Limited which is a joint venture of the Assam Oil Company, the Burma Oil Company and the Government of India. Although much has been achieved by the Oil and Natural Gas Commission, the actual results are not up to the expectations. Even today the Commission does not have a correct idea of production potential of the different regions bearing oil. Nor has it worked out a detailed cost pattern for the various fields.
The estimates of production potential of Cambay were originally put as 23 million tons and now it reduced
by one third. The fact that drilling operations have been slowed down gives the impression that this field is not as promising as was expected ori. ginally.
The potential of Ankleswar area is even now a mere guess, estimates varying from 20 to 40 million tons. As per the Ministry's Report, 36 wells in this area have been drilled up to the end of March 1962. Out of these,