Colitis is called inflammatory processes in the mucosa of the colon. This condition is caused by infections or chronic disorders. In the first case, we can talk about the emergence of an acute form of the disease. As a rule, it passes quite quickly. But in the second case, treatment of chronic intestinal colitis is required , which can take months of effort. What is this state and how does it occur?
 The acute form develops under the influence of bacterial infections, long reception of some medicines or poisoning with mushrooms or chemicals. If she has been cured insufficiently carefully, chronic colitis may develop. Symptoms, treatment of this disease strongly affect the daily life of the patient. Other causes that cause a chronic condition are disturbed metabolic processes of the body, diseases of other organs, as well as infection with intestinal parasites, primarily lamblias or pinworms. With a reduced overall resistance of the organism, such factors very quickly lead to disruption of the colon.
 The acute form is much brighter. It is characterized by stool disorders, nausea, fever and all signs of intoxication. Chronic is less obvious. Violation of the motor function of the intestine, persistent pain and flatulence in the abdomen, deterioration of general well-being with low working capacity and irritability, intolerance of some products, most often milk, cabbage or black bread - all reflect chronic colitis.
 Symptoms, the treatment of which is not carried out, constantly poison the life of the patient. The chronic form leads to frequent emptying of the intestines, which are accompanied by discomfort in the lower abdomen and in the lateral areas. All this significantly worsens the standard of living.
 If you suspect that chronic colitis, symptoms, treatment and prevention of it in the future should be discussed as soon as possible with the gastroenterologist. The specialist will conduct a diagnosis that relies both on the study of the clinical picture and history, and on laboratory tests, rectoscopy, colonoscopy and irrigoscopy, and will prescribe the necessary treatment. During the examination it will be possible to exclude such diseases of the large intestine as proctitis, Crohn's disease, intestinal tuberculosis and enterocolitis, which may well accompany or remind symptoms of inflammation of the intestinal mucosa.
 Based on the data received, medicines will be prescribed. For example, sulfonamides, such as the drug "Ftalazol", to alleviate dyspepsia, eubiotics (drugs Enteroseptol, Intestoptan, Mexaz) - to normalize the stool, polyenzymes "Polizim" or "Festal" to solve the problem with enzyme disorders . In addition, adsorbents are recommended, for example Lactofiltrum. If the disorder of the intestines is accompanied by diarrhea, the drugs "Loperamide" or "Imodium" are used.
 In severe cases, glucocorticoid hormones are required. Do not prescribe drugs yourself. If long-term use of any medication leads to addiction or aggravation, they are replaced by others or, if possible, abolished.
 In parallel with taking medications, therapy is carried out with the help of a specialized diet, psychotherapy, physiotherapy involving thermal effects, as well as sanatorium treatment, which improves not only the health of the intestines, but also the condition of the patient as a whole.
 How to prevent chronic colitis?
 Symptoms, treatment of the disease as a whole are clear. And what is necessary to prevent relapse? The most important thing is to follow a special diet. It is necessary to limit grapes, black bread, prunes, beets, cabbage, there are no sharp and salty dishes.
 For the period of recovery, antihistamines and saline laxatives are prescribed for allergic forms, antibacterial for infectious, anticholinergics and antispasmodics with spasticity. Extremely useful are also irrigation and enemas.