JYAISTHA 21, 1902 (SAKA)
(e) if so, the security arrangements. made and the steps taken to create confidence among the Nirankaris?
THE MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS (SHRI YOGENDRA MAKWANA): (a): Yes, Sir.
(b) No, Sir,
(c) Four arrests have already been made. Vigorous efforts are being made to arrest the other suspects. A ward of Rs. 50,000|-has been announced for the arrest of absconding accused, Ranjit Singh. His photograph has been sent to all State police forces. The airports are being checked to ascertain whether he has escaped from the country. Interpol has also been requested to issue look out notices to all countries. Owners of 30 Carbine gun are being screened with the help of the State CIDs of Punjab, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.
(d) Yes, Sir./
(e) Instructions have been issued to take all possible and effective measures at the place of residence of the new Nirankari Chief in Delhi as well as at the places he visits in Delhi for religious or any other purposes. All the States and Union Territories have also been instructed to ensure all possible and effective security arrangements whenever the new Nirankari Chief visits any State or Union Territory.
SHRI M. RAM GOPAL REDDY: Mr. Speaker, Sir, the investigating agencies picked up some finger prints as also took photographs of the place of murder. The C.B.I. and the C.I.B. have with them finger prints of a number of persons. Have the investigations on this basis led to some clue of the murderers?
SHRI YOGENDRA MAKWANA: All necessary steps were taken up and so far four persons have been arrested; the investigations are still going
SHRI M. RAM GOPAL REDDY: Is the hon. Minister satisfied with the security arrangements made by the Government for the security of the new Chief of Nirankari Sect?
SHRI YOGENDRA MAKWANA: We are satisfied with the security arrangements made in this regard. If the hon. Member wants, I can describe what measures we have taken in this connection.
श्री अटल बिहारी वाजपेयो हत्या से पहले निरकारी बाबा ने नरकार को पत्र लिखा था कि उनकी जान को खतरा है और उनकी रक्षा का इंतजाम किया जाए । क्या यह सच है कि निग्वारी भवत पर पुलिस वाले तैनात थे लेकिन जब हत्यारे चोरी छिपे भवन में प्रवेश कर गए और चौदह नम्बर के कमरे मे ठहरे तो उनकी कोई जाच पडताल नहीं की गई ? क्या इस पहल की भी जांच की गई है ?
SHRI YOGENDRA MAKWANA: They have their own security arrangements also Apart fiom that, the Government had provided necessary security and all necessul, steps were taken.
SHRI ATAL BIHARI VAJPAYEE: My question has not been answered.
MR. SPEAKER: How did they enter? Was that angle probed in?
SHRI YOGENDRA MAKWANA: They entered through the bathroom.
SHRI ATAL BIHARI VAJPAYEE: How could they enter the bathroom without entering the building?
श्री मूल चंद डागा नये निरकारी बाबा को जो पत्र मिल रहे है, क्या पुलिस ने यह जाच की है कि किन-किन लोगों ने उनको पत्र लिखे हैं और उन लोगों के खिलाफ क्या कार्यवाही की गई है ? जिन लोगों ने यह पत्र लिखे हैं, क्या उनको पकड़ा गया है, उनकी जमानत ली गई है या उनके खिलाफ कोई कार्यवाही की गई है या नहीं ?
श्री योगेन्द्र मकवाना : ऐसे पत्नों में कोई सच्चा नाम देता ही नही, फिक्टीशियस नाम होते हैं, लेकिन जहां से पन प्राया है, वहां पुलिम जरूर गई है
श्री मूल चंद डागा : पत्र माया, लेकिन आपने आज तक क्या जांच की ?
श्री योगेन्द्र मकवाना: मुझे नोटिस चाहिये,
if you want the detail. Five-Day Week in Central Government Offices
*50. SHRI SATISH PRASAD SINGH:
SHRI S. M. KRISHAN:
(a) whether there is any proposal under consideration of Government to have a 5-day week in Central Government Offices;
(b) if so, its broad outlines and from what date it is being enforced;
(c) the considerations which have weighed with Government to introduce this 5-day week; and
(d) how far this will result in more efficient working and the anticipated savings in terms of money?
THE MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS AND DEPARTMENT OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS (SHRI P. VENKATASUBBAIAH): (a) Yes, Sir.
(b) to (d) The proposal has been initiated with a view to effecting saving in fuel and energy without affecting the total weekly working hours.
The various details of the proposal are being worked out.
श्री सतीश प्रसाद सिंह कार्यावधि घटाकर 5 दिन करने से सरकार को कितनी बचत होगी ?
SHRI P. VENKATASUBBAIAH: The main intention of the Government is to save fuel as much as possible in introducing a 5-day week. Rough calculations have be made and it has been estimated that near v 39 crores of rupees will be saved in the matter of consumption of petrol, a few
crores will be saved in diesel oil and nearly Rs. 15 lakhs in the matter of expenditure on electricity. This is the tentative saving that has been anticipated by the Government by this arrangement.
श्री सतीश प्रसाद सिंह: क्या माननीय मंत्रो जी यह बतायेंगे कि सेन्ट्रल गवर्नमेंट के मातहत जो सैन्ट्रल स्कूलत हैं, उनकी अवधि भी 5 दिन करने के बारे में सरकार सोच रही है ?
SHRI P. VENKATASUBBAIAH: It is intended for the Central Government employees, the and Central Schools do not come under this proposal at all.
SHRI B. R. NAHATA; What will be the amount of loss in production by introducing a 5-day week?
SHRI P. VENKATASUBBAIAH: It is intended for the administrative offices. There are 39 working hours in the present six-day week. These will be adjusted in the 5-day week when adopted. The timings will be so suitably introduced as to see that there is no loss of time in actual working hours with the introduction of 5-day week. It is intended for the administrative offices and not for production units.
श्री दया राम शाक्य : अभी 6 दिन सप्ताह होने पर भी गवर्नमेंट को करोड़ों रुपया ओवर टाइम का देना पड़ता है। क्या सरकार 5 दिन का सप्ताह करने पर सरकारी कर्मचारियों के लिये कोई ऐसा प्रतिबन्ध लगाने पर विचार कर रही है कि जिससे ओवरटाइम पर अधिक रपया न दिया जाये अथवा न दिये जाने की व्यवस्था हो ।
SHRI P. VENKATASUBBAIAH: It appears the hon. Member is not able to appreciate the whole thing. One day is being saved. The hours that are going to be lost by introducing a 5-day week instead of a 6-day week will be staggered into the five days. For instance, the working hours which were previously in vogue in the Government offices, that is, 10.15 a.m. to 5.15 p.m. will now be extended and the new time table will
JYAISTHA 21, 1902 (SAKA) Oral Answers
be 9.45 a.m. to 5.45 p.m. The same is the case about other working hours, which are from 9.15 AM. to 5,15 PM. They have also been suitably amended, i.e. one hour will be added to this 5-day week. The fact that over-time and other facilities are available, will not affect this working arrangement.
SHRI RATANSINH RAJDA: Because of the proposed curtailment of the working days, work in the Government offices would move very slowly. Already, people are complaining that files are moving very slowly. What steps will Government take to see that the disposal of the files is done very quickly?
SHRI P. VENKATASUBBAIAH: The working of the Government does not depend upon the change in the timings. The files will move quickly and as expeditiously as possible. The various Ministries and Departments will take care of that.
SHRI A. T. PATIL: Is the Government aware that if this formula is applied to the Department of Parliamentray Affairs, there will be loss to the Government, and not a gain?
PROF. MADHU DANDAVATE: If this rule is applied, can we meet on Saturdays?
MR. SPEAKER: Now the next question.
P.M's Meeting with Opposition Leaders on Assam Agitation
*51. SHRI CHITTA BASU:
SHRI AMAR ROY PRADHAN:
(a) whether the Prime Minister met the leaders of the Opposition recently on the issue of Assam Agitation;
(b) if so, the outcome of the meeting; and
(c) what other steps Government propose to take for the early solution of the Assam problem?
THE MINISTER OF STATE THE MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS (SHRI YOGENDRA MAKWANA):
(a) Yes, Sir. The Prime Minister met the leaders of the Opposition parties/groups in Parliament, on 31st May, 1980.
(b) and (c) An unanimous appeal was made by all those attending the meeting to the agitators to immediately call off the agitation and create an atmosphere conducive to the holding of negotiations and arriving at agreed solution. A copy of the conclusions of the meeting is laid on the table of the House. The Government hope that saner counsels will prevail and the agitators will pay heed to the appeal.
A meeting of the Leaders of Political Parties and Groups in Parliament was convened today (31.5.80) by the Prime Minister. It was attended by the following: -
(1) Shri Chitta Basu, F.B.
(2) Shri Tridib Chaudhuri, R.S.P (3) Shri Y. B. Chavan, Cong (U) (4) Shri Bhupesh Gupta, C.P.I (5) Shri Samar Mukherjee, C.P.I. (M).
(6) Shri P. Ramamurthi. C.B.I (M).
(7) Shri Ebrahim Sulaiman Sait, Muslim League.
The Ministers present at the meeting
were:1. Smt. Indira Gandhi, Prime Minister.
2. Shri P. V. Narasimha Rao, Minister of External Affairs.
3. Giani Zail Singh, Minister of Home Affairs.
4. Shri C. M. Stephen, Minister of Communications.
5. Shri R. Venkataraman, Minister
of Finance.
6. Shri P. K. Mukherjee, Minister of Commerce and Steel and Mines and Civil Supplies.
7. Shri Bhishma Narain Singh, Minister of Parliamentary Affairs.
8. Shri Sita Ram Kesri, Minister of State in the Department of Parliamentary Affairs.
They reviewed the situation in Assam and after discussions came to the following unanimous conclusions: -
(i) The integrity of the country should be safeguarded.
(ii) The safety and the security of the minorities should be the special reponsibility of the Central Government.
(ii) The problem of foreigners can be solved only through a negotiated settlement. No person should be subjected to harassment. The identification of foreigners should be left to a machinery which can command the confidence of all concerned. The manner of determining those who are not Indian citizens and dealing with them will have to be inaccordance with an agreed procedure.
In order to create an atmosphere conducive to the holding of negotiations and arriving at an agreed solution, the assembled Leaders appealed that the agitation should be immediately called off. The leaders fervently hoped that this appeal would meet with a positive response.
SHRI CHITTA BASU: The general spirit of the conference was to find a solution to this problem through negotiations; and for that, an appeal was made to AASU and the Gana Sangram Parishad to withdraw or call off the movement. Now it has apOral Answers
peared in the Press that not only has the AASU or the Gana Sangram Parishad not responded to the call or appeal positively; but the AASU has given a call to further intensify the movement. In view of this, may I know from the hon. Minister what particular steps Government proposes now to take, in view of the rejection or non_acceptance of the appeal made by that conference?
SHRI YOGENDRA MAKWANA: We have made several appeals; and we have requested the AASU. they have not responded to it. So, the only thing that remains is to control the situation at present.
SHRI CHITTA BASU: I think question has not been answered. The general spirit of the conference was that the problem should be solved through negotiations; and in order to facilitate negotiations, a call was given by the assembled leaders, to the AASU to withdraw the movement. Now it appears in the Press-and the Government also knows it-that the AASU has not only not withdrawn the movement, but it has also given a call to further intensify the movement. In view of this, what further steps does Government propose to take, because they have not accepted the appeal, nor have they responded positively? What particular steps does Government propose to take, in this particular situation?
THE PRIME MINISTER (SHRIMATI INDIRA GANDHI): It is not possible to outline the steps here. Firstly, we continue to be open to negotiations, if anybody wants to talk to us. We are not closing our minds on that issue. And from time to time, representatives of various groups are meeting the authorities there in Assam-the Adviser, Governor and so on. But at the same time, we have to take full measures to see that the lives and proper31 Written Answers JYAISTHA 21, 1902 (SAKA) Written Answers
ty of the minorities are protected, be. cause many of the minorities are also Assemese. But even the others should be protected. As it was made clear in Yesterday's debate, a large number of people who have participated in the agitation, have privately confirmed that they have done so because they are being threatened and are in fear for their lives.
SHRI CHITTA BASU: The Governor of the North Eastern Region, Shri L. P. Singh, is one who is responsible for the wrong or the bad handling of the situation in Assam. Whether the Government proposes to take him back or take other steps so that an important person should be there, particularly the Governor who can tackle the matter in a proper way. Whether the attention of the Government has also been drawn to a Press report saying that Shri L. P. Singh has already expressed his desire to be relieved of the responsibility. If it is a fact, would the Government react to it?
SHRIMATI INDIRA GANDHI: Sir, Shri L. P. Singh has expressed a desire to resign. His method may not have succeeded, but I don't think it is fair to say that he deliberately did anything wrong. His effort was to see whether those who have sincere grievances can be dealt with separate. ly from those who are more extreme and even reparatist. This is what he was trying to do. It is true that he did not succeed.
SHRI AMAR ROY PRADHAN: think the leaders of the different political parties discussed the problem at length But there is a problem which has been created out of this agitation led by AASU regarding linguistic and religious minorities who have been forced to come to other parts of India after leaving Assam; their number is 15,000 and every day more and more minorities are coming from Assam because there the law of the jungle is prevailing.
I would like to know from the hon. Minister whether any step has been taken and what steps have been taken to rehabilitate these people, 15,000 people, those who are already here and those who are coming every day.
SHRI YOGENDRA MAKWANA: Necessary steps are taken to rehabilitate all those who have migrated from their residences.
SHRI KRISHNA CHANDRA HALDER: The hon. Prime Minister had just now said that Government is always ready to meet different political parties. I would like to know from the hon. Prime Minister whether Government is going to convene a meeting of political parties including those leaders of the agitators and the minority communities of Assam and the north eastern region.
SHRIMATI INDIRA GANDHI: We have had a meeting of the opposition parties. If it is considered necessary, I have no hesitation in meeting them again But the hon member knows that the agitators and specially the students have clearly expressed a view, as reported in the Press, that they consider politicians and political parties irrelevant and in fact they were angry with me for consulting the they Opposition. I doubt whether vula come to such a meeting.
MR. SPEAKER: The Question Hou is over.
WRITTEN ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS
Reduction in Production of Trucks by Tata Engineering and Locomotive Company
*43. SHRI K. RAMA VÜKTHY. WÄl¹ the Minister of INDUSTRY be pleased
to ftate:
(a) what are the infra-structural constraints and bottlenecks that have led to 20 per cent reduction in the