India are scheduled to play three T20 and three One Day International’s during their tour of Zimbabwe next month, from June 11 to 20. The BCCI selectors have expressed their desire to rest the senior cricketers of the Indian team – including Virat Kohli, Rohit Sharma and Shikhar Dhawan for the upcoming tour.
 The selectors want to give youngsters an opportunity to showcase their skills and prove their worth during the tour. However, the selectors want Dhoni to lead the side during the tour, as he will not play any limited overs cricket until next March. The Indian limited overs captain has also been given the option to either play the tour or opt out of it.
 In case, Dhoni decides to opt out, here is a list of 5 wicket-keeper batsmen who could replace him:
Wriddhiman Saha is playing for Kings XI Punjab in this edition of the Indian Premier League. Saha is also currently the regular wicket-keeper of the Indian Test squad, since Dhoni’s retirement from the longest format of the game.
 The 31-year-old has had a decent season in the IPL so far, scoring 267 runs in 11 matches at an average of 26. 70, and a highest score of 56. He has scored two fifties for Punjab this year, and has been quick behind the stumps taking four catches and two stumpings.
 Saha has also had an impressive domestic career for Bengal, scoring 2693 runs in 88 innings at an average of 42. 74 in List A cricket. His 123 catches and 15 stumpings, clearly reflect his wicket-keeping skills.
 The right-hander will provide depth in the batting, and strike a balance in the side with his clever wicket-keeping skills.
 The Kolkata Knight Riders opening batsman, Robin Uthappa has had a decent season this year, scoring 358 runs in 13 matches, managing a highest score of 72 at an average of 27. 53. The wicket-keeper batsman was the Orange cap winner for KKR in 2014, with 660 runs.
 He has shown improvement behind the stumps by not giving away too many extras this year, taking eight catches and 3 stumpings. In the domestic fifty overs format, Uthappa has been exceptionally good and has a mammoth 5642 runs in 163 innings.
 In spite of his great run in domestic cricket, he has not been given enough chances to display his skills in the Blue jersey. The tour of Zimbabwe would be the best platform for the 30-year-old to make a comeback into the Indian side.
 The Sunrisers Hyderabad’s wicket-keeper batsman, Naman Ojha, has made 15 dismissals this IPL, all through catches. He has scored a meek 81 runs at an average of 13. 50 in 12 games. However, one of the reasons for this could be that Hyderabad have one of the leading run scorers, David Warner as their opener and Ojha who bats down the order has not got enough chances with the bat.
 Meanwhile, the 32-year-old has been an impressive wicket-keeper for Madhya Pradesh in domestic cricket, taking 135 catches and 38 stumpings in 112 List A games, including a highest score of 167.
 Ojha was also the wicket-keeper in the third Test of India's tour of Sri Lanka in August 2015 after wicket-keeper Wriddhiman Saha was ruled out due to a hamstring injury. With already being experienced in International cricket, he would be a more suitable replacement for Dhoni.
 The 21-year-old wicket-keeper batsman, Sanju Samson has an above par average of 27. 10 in this edition of the Indian Premier League, in spite of batting down the order for Delhi Daredevils. He has scored 271 runs in 12 innings, including a highest score of 60.
 The youngster has been a decent keeper for Delhi in the IPL, making four dismissals so far. He has had a good record behind the stumps, for Kerala, in List A cricket, taking 40 catches and nine stumpings in 40 innings.
 He has had good exposure as a keeper, previously playing for prominent teams like Kolkata Knight Riders, Rajasthan Royals, and also India U-19.
 Dinesh Kartik would ideally be the best choice to replace Dhoni in the tour of Zimbabwe, considering his experience in International circuit. The wicket-keeper batsman has had a good season with Gujarat Lions, scoring 280 runs and making 13 dismissals in 13 innings.
 The 30-year-old has 4827 runs in 160 innings and averages 35. 23 in domestic fifty overs cricket. Since the Indian side scheduled to tour Zimbabwe in June will feature new players, Karthik could play an important role in the side which lacks experience and international exposure.