Mumbai: BJP partner Uddhav Thackeray of the Shiv Sena has suggested a Brexit-style referendum on the notes ban, also suggesting that the centre consider former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's comments in Parliament today seriously as they come from a "renowned economist".
 "I will not hesitate in taking a critical stand on the process in which demonetisation was implemented," said Mr Thackeray, who is the chief of the Shiv Sena, adding, "The way in which a referendum was sought in Britain before its withdrawal from the European Union, a survey is being done here. But seeing people's response, their (UK) Prime Minister chose to step down. Will something similar happen here? " he asked.
 He was referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for feedback through a survey on his decision earlier this month to pull 500 and 1000 rupee notes to combat corruption and black money.
 Five lakh people shared their responses to several questions on the survey and PM Modi has thanked citizens for the "historic participation," and for overwhelmingly supporting his decision.
 But opposition leaders have denounced the survey saying it is not representative of public opinion because most of India does not own smartphones and could not participate. Mayawati of the Bahujan Samaj Party called it "fake and sponsored," and suggested PM Modi call fresh elections to gauge the true response of the public to his move.
 In parliament today PM Modi's predecessor Dr Manmohan Singh of the Congress said he did not disagree with the objective of the demonitisation, but called its implementation a "monumental management failure. "
He said that the fact that people have been denied access to their own money was nothing short of "organised loot and legalised plunder," and warned that the country's GDP would decline by 2 per cent.
 "Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is a renowned economist. Thus, his words and opinions should be taken seriously. The way in which money is being collected, seems that money is being extorted from common man. You have brought tears in the eyes of people who made you come to power with a lot of aspirations," Mr Thackeray said.
 He said there was no point in PM Modi getting emotional - a reference to the PM's address to party lawmakers on Tuesday - at a time when people have tears in their eyes. "One person cannot take a decision for 125 crore people. Before taking the decision to demonetise the currency, people should have been taken into confidence," the Sena chief said.
 His party had joined West Bengal chief minister in a protest march in Delhi last week, but this week the Shiv Sena assured Prime Minister that the party would back the government in Parliament, calling the demonetisation a "bold and historic move. "