Melbourne: Too many Test matches played in the Indian sub-continent do not produce results, which is a worry for the health of cricket's longer version, according to Australian captain Ricky Ponting.
 Asked about his thoughts on the 'death of Test cricket', Ponting said, "I can understand where a lot of negative stuff might start because there's not a lot of results being achieved on the sub-continent these days.
 "That is a worry for the game. But all we can do is just keep on playing good, aggressive, positive cricket and try to get results in most games we play," Ponting said.
 "I actually think Test cricket is particularly strong. We are a bit lucky in we play a lot of great Test series. We have a great rivalry with South Africa now, the Ashes Tests are always great matches and Australia and India on the Test side of things in recent times have been great contests," he added.
 Ponting felt the new umpire referral system has problems but said it should be given a further run.
 "I sat down with umpires at the end of Adelaide Test and had a chat to them about it. I was a bit worried it might have been putting a bit more pressure on them rather than taking it off, and that's one thing we certainly don't need.
 "We have to remember, right now it's still really new to all of us and we've got to give it a bit more of an extended run to see its true value," he told The Daily Telegraph.
 Ponting is also determined that he leads Australia to the 2012 Ashes in England and win the series before retirement.
 "I'd really love to be good enough, strong and fit enough to get back to England for one more crack at it. I've been really disappointed with the way the results have gone over there in the last two Ashes series and it would be nice to go back to The Oval and walk away with some good memories rather than some pretty ordinary ones," said Ponting, who would turn 35 next week.
 "It could very well be (the swansong series). But I'm not sure where I'm headed but if I'm still fit enough and still playing well enough and I'm still enjoying it as much as I am, who knows where the finish line may be? "
Cricket Australia is evaluating the possibility of night Tests with specially designed balls, but Ponting is not all that upbeat about it.
 "I'm probably a bit of a traditionalist when it comes to Tests and wouldn't like to see them tinkered around with too much, but I'm happy to see what they come up with.