They went into the semi-finals of the FIH Women’s Pro League looking to make space for themselves in the final of the showpiece tournament but the results failed to swing their way. Playing in two closely competed, feisty and competitive semi-finals, both Argentina and Germany gave a solid account of themselves, huffing and puffing before eventfully collapsing in the skirmish of things.
While Germany’s defeat against Netherlands was a suspected one, Argentina going down to Australia left us surprised. Having been the better side all tournament and ended in second place in the league table, Argentina were widely understood to go through this encounter and reserve a place for themselves in the final.
They however ended up succumbing in the penalty shoot-out after things ended all square at the end of extra time. With the 1-1 deadlock refusing to be broken, Argentina failed to garner the requisite composure ended in penalties, missing two of theirs while Australia made the most of their predicament to head out 4-3.
Elsewhere after just about managing to make it to the top 4, fourth placed Germany were left to face off against Netherlands, top ranked in not only the league standings but the world as well. The World Cup winners were a formidable opponent and they proved to be exactly that despite facing a stern test from Germany who put in a compelling showing as they threw the kitchen sink and more at Netherlands.
Having gone down 2-1 on the night, Germany now head into the third place match looking to throw another stiff challenge at Argentina who themselves will be left hurting after failing to make the most of a chance which isn’t that easy to come about. It promises to be a real humdinger of a match, one where either side will be looking to right the wrongs of their semi-final defeats and walk away with the third place medals.
Ranked right next to each other in the FIH rankings at 4 and 5 respectively, Germany and Argentina know things are going to be tricky when they face off against each other. The one thing which sees Argentina hold the upper hand in this clash is their more astute and solid defence, a unit which has given away a total of only 16 goals throughout the league. With Germany themselves not the most cascading of teams when it comes to scoring, we see this relatively low scoring match ending in Argentina’s favour by the smallest of margins.
Argentina’s Belen Succi is the shot stopper we have opted to go for in this match. She’s curtailed a hoard of attacking shots her way courtesy of her incredible shot saving abilities and we see her becoming one of her side’s star performers in this important encounter.
One of the most finely tuned and comprehensive backlines of all the eight partaking countries in the marquee tournament, Argentina’s defenders have perfectly compensated for a lack of goals upfront. And leading the defensive unit to perfection has been the exemplary Silvina D’Elia who has paired up impeccably with Lucine Von Der Heyde to parry away the onslaught of attacks thrown her way.
From Germany we have opted for the two picks as well. Despite enduring a torrid time during their league stage matches, they put up a real fight infront of Netherlands and against Argentina who have managed just 32 goals in 15 matches, we see Germany flourishing once again. We are banking on Make Schaunig and Selin Oruz to come good for us and getting us a basketful of points.
With the 5 successful penalty corner conversions to her name, Rebecca Grote from Germany is the primary player we wanted in our midfield facet. In a match which sets to be a cracker of a match, Germany will need their centre of the park to function in unison and Grote is someone who encapsulates all the necessary qualities of such a performer.
From Argentina its Eugenia Trinchinetti and Micaela Retegui we have opted for. The two have a penchant for putting in rampant and compelling showings time and time again and we see them doing the same today as well.
She’s shown the much needed incisiveness to score goals as her counterparts have failed to find the opposition’s goal and we see her taking the mantle on her shoulders once again and delivering an outright decisive performance. With the 5 goals in her kitty, Julieta Jankunas comes in to be partnered by Agustine Albertarrio who has managed to score on four occasions herself.
The six field goals make her, her team’s star performer and top goal scorer and we are entrusting Charlotte Stapenhorst to work up an Argentina defence renowned for its stringent nature.
Silvina D’Elia is our captain for this one while we have opted for Jankunas the vice-captain.