'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean?
ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
The Blue Cash Preferred Card has the highest rewards rate on grocery store purchases on our list. It also offers great rewards on gas purchases, which helps with today's higher gasoline prices.
But any rewards card can help you save money on groceries and other spending. The question is: Will a 1% rewards rate, which many credit cards offer, really help much? If you spend $500 on groceries, that's $5 back. If you're paying an annual fee, you may not break even.
These top credit cards below all offer substantially more than 1% on grocery purchases; in fact, the highest card offers 6% back. Choose wisely, and a grocery rewards card may save you hundreds of dollars a year.
If you're serious about racking up grocery store rewards, check out the Blue Cash Preferred credit card. It has the highest rewards rate of any card we reviewed.
Unlike some other rewards cards, you don't need a top-tier credit score to qualify for this card. You may be able to sign up with a "good" or better credit score.
The rewards don't end with grocery store savings. You'll receive the same level of rewards for select streaming subscription purchases, and lesser rewards rates on gasoline purchases and all other purchases.
If you shop for groceries at Walmart, you can't go wrong by getting a no-annual-fee credit card from Walmart. Its rewards rates on groceries and other items are almost as high as the grocery store rewards rate for the Blue Cash Preferred Card, but there is no limit on how much you can spend and receive the high rate. The only catch is that you must order your groceries online after the first year for the very best rewards rate.
If you don't shop for groceries at Walmart, their rewards card may convince you to try them out. Walmart carries name brands at very competitive prices, so you'll save money even before you start collecting rewards.
For even more rewards, use Walmart Pay, Walmart's digital smartphone app, with your Capital One Walmart Rewards Card.
We like the Capital One Savor Rewards Card for its good rewards rate, plus a cash bonus if you spend a certain amount within the first three months.
You pay an annual fee right away with this card, but it should be well offset by your cash rewards. If you travel abroad, you'll appreciate no foreign transaction fees, and if you're ever late on a payment, your interest rate won't go up as a result (known as a penalty APR).
If you spend regularly on dining, entertainment, and streaming services, you can earn even higher rewards rates in these categories.
If you shop at Whole Foods and you're an Amazon Prime member, you probably need an Amazon Prime Rewards Visa Signature Card. It's a no-fee card that pays you back handsomely every time you shop at Whole Foods, which is owned by Amazon.
You get the same high rewards rate when you shop at Amazon and lower rates at restaurants and gas stations. Your rewards rates on all other purchases seem low by comparison, but it can still add up.
Credit cards with fees tend to have the highest cash rewards rates. What if you don't want to pay a fee or take the chance that your rewards won't be high enough to offset the annual fee?
The Wells Fargo Active Cash Card comes with no annual fee, so your acceptable cash rewards rate is all yours from the first month. It also offers a signup bonus after you meet a minimum threshold on your card.
You must have excellent credit to qualify for this card.
The Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express is the best credit card for groceries overall. It's for those of you who are serious about racking up grocery store rewards.
You should choose a card that best matches the features you're looking for, such as high cashback rates, branding, APR, and more. The cards in this list are a great place to start.
All our picks for grocery store rewards cards are also good at other stores, restaurants, online services, and anyplace else that accepts major credit cards. Walmart also offers a credit card that you can only use at its stores.
High interest rates can cost you far more than you'll receive back in grocery store rewards. If you have significant credit card balances, concentrate on paying them off first, perhaps with a low- or no-interest introductory period credit card. When you're out of credit card debt, a grocery rewards card will make more sense.
If having a rewards card tempts you to overspend, watch out. It wouldn't take much additional spending to cost you more than you're saving with rewards. You're always better off not spending a dollar than getting even several cents back.
We chose five credit cards with above average rewards rates on groceries. They either have no annual fee, or their rewards rates more than make up for a fee. Cards may have average or higher interest rates (APRs); however, it's assumed everyday purchases such as groceries are paid off every month.
Below are a couple more credit cards worth checking out: