According to a report in India Today, Sushant Singh Rajput had signaled his family about getting blackmailed by GF Rhea Chakraborty of putting him in a mental hospital!
Sushant Singh Rajput's death case is one heck of a big, shocking mystery with some of the other shocking revelations coming out in public domain every day. Adding fuel to the fire is his father KK Singh's FIR that he lodged against Rhea Chakraborty. In the same, Singh has accused Rhea of abetment to suicide, theft, blackmailing, harassment and whatnot. Ever since then, a lot of people are coming forth to open a can of worms in regards to the actress. Now, if a recent report in India Today is anything to go by, Rhea was allegedly scheming Sushant of putting him in a mental hospital while he had visited his sister in Chandigarh.
The news portal has managed to track Rhea's call records that reveal how she made 25 calls to the late actor in 5 days, while he was residing with his sister Rani. As per India Today, Sushant was in Chandigarh during this phase, somewhere around January 20-24, 2020. India Today further states, "In November 2019, Sushant Singh Rajput had called for help, even booked his tickets to Chandigarh. Rhea allegedly blackmailed him to stay back." They further reported how Sushant had changed his number in December 2019, after which he called for help to his family. During the same, Sushant revealed how Rhea and her family were allegedly scheming to put him in a mental hospital against his will.
Sushant, during the same conversation, claimed that he wants to settle down in Himachal Pradesh somewhere. He soon drove to Chandigarh because of allegedly suffering from claustrophobia because of wrong medication, wherein he stayed with his elder sister, Rani Di.
As per India Today, it was Siddharth Pithani who informed Rhea about Sushant's trip to Chandigarh. She then allegedly blackmailed him to return by making 25 calls in 3-4 days. The actor eventually headed back to Mumbai on January 24-25, reports India Today.