PHALGUNA 8, 1918 (Saka)
(b) if so, the salient features of this scheme;
(c) the estimated cost of this aircraft; and
(d) the time by which manufacturing of such aircraft is likely to be started and this scheme is likely to be implemented?
THE MINISTER OF CIVIL AVIATION AND MINISTER OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING (SHRI C.M. IBRAHIM): (a) and (b) Small aircraft can be manufactured only after obtaining industrial licence. At present, National Aerospace Laboratory is developing light trainer aircraft Hansa-ll and a 14 seater utility aircraft Saras Duet. Besides, 2 seater trainer aircraft Swati has been developed indigenously and is being manufactured by BHEL, Haridwar.
(c) The cost of Swati aircraft is approximately Rs. 36.00 lakhs. Cost of other aircraft cannot be given as they are still under development.
(d) while Swati aircraft is already being manufactured, the other two aircraft are still under development.
Revenue Earned by Doordarshan/AIR through Commercial Advertisements
1070. SHRI N.S.V. CHITTHAN : Will the Minister of INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING be pleased to state :
(a) the revenue earned by Doordarshan and AIR through commercial advertisements as on January, 1997;
(b) the criterie adopted to select good advertisements to be telecast;
(c) the steps taken to increase the revenue of Doordarshan and AIR;
(d) whether there is a stiff competition from various satellite channels on the tariff for commercialisation; (e) the steps taken to offer more reasonable rates on Doordarshan?
THE MINISTER OF CIVIL AVIATION AND MINISTER OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING (SHRI C.M. IBRAHIM) (a) Total revenue earned by AIR and Doordarshan from April, 1994 till January, 1997 is Rs. 68.15 crores and Rs. 465.12 crores respectively.
(b) The advertisements are approved for telecast on Doordarshan strictly as per the code for commercial advertising on Doordarshan.
(c) Constant efforts are being made by both Doordarshan and AIR to improve the functioning as well as the revenue earnings which is a continuous prosess.
(d) Yes Sir.
(e) Doordarshan rationalises its rates from time to time keeping in view the market trends and norms for advertisements.
Survey in regard to Health of Labourers
1071. SHRI SUKH LAL KUSHWAHA: Will the Minister of LABOUR be pleased to state :
(a) whether the Government have conducted any survey in regard to health of labourers working in factories under Satna district of Madhya Pradesh;
(b) if so, the details in this regard; and (c) if not, the reasons therefor?
THE MINISTER OF LABOUR (SHRI M. ARUNACHALAM): (a) to (c) Information is being collected and will be laid on the Table of the House.
Privatisation of Telecom Services in Gujarat
1072. SHRI N.J. RATHWA: Will the Minister of COMMUNICATIONS be pleased to state :
(a) whether the Government propose to privatise telecommunication services in Gujarat especially in Chhota Udaipur, tribal, backward and rural areas;
(b) if so, the details alongwith the agencies involved engaged for the purpose;
(c) whether the Government have made any controlling on these private agencies;
(d) if so, the details thereof; and
(e) the steps taken/proposed to be taken to avoid conflict of interest between private and public sector industrialist?
THE MINISTER OF COMMUNICATIONS (SHRI BENI PRASAD VARMA): (a) The Government has permitted the entry of Private Sector in providing Basic Telephone Services in the country including the State of Gujarat.
(b) M/s Reliance Telecom Ltd have been issued a Letter of Intent for providing Basic Telephone Services in Gujarat Circle.
(c) and (d) Detailed guidlines have been given in the tender conditions and the Lincence Agreement for control on the activities of the Private Operators e.g., they cannot charge more tariff than that fixed by D.O.T.,
(e) There are no public sector industrialist in this case and hence the question of conflict of interest does not arise. As far as Department of Telecom is concerned. sufficient safeguards are provided.
Turnover of Indian Telecom Manufacturing Industry
1073. SHRI R. SAMBASIVA RAO: Will the Minister of COMMUNICATIONS be pleased to state :
(a) whether the Indian telecom manufacturing industry is likely to face 10% fall in its turnover in the current year;
(b) if so, whether the industry which has grown from a turnover of Rs. 2,000 crore in 1991 to Rs. 7,800 crore in 1995-96 is all set to take a plunge in its growth;
(c) whether the telecom equipment manufacturers association has pointed out that Rs. 5000 crore investment in the industry is lying grossly under utilised;
(d) whether the export earnings of the industry have plummuted from Rs. 300 crore in 1995-96 to Rs. 100 crore in the current year;
(e) if so, the reasons therefor; and
(f) the steps the Government propose to take to improve the telecom manufacturing turnover?
THE MINISTER OF COMMUNICATIONS (SHRI BENI PRASAD VARMA) (a) and (b) Information available with the Department of Telecommunications indicates that the turnover for the current year is likely to be of the same level as of the last year.
(c) Telecom Equipment Manufacturers Association have been claiming the under utilisation of their manufacturing capacity.
(d) and (e) The actual position about the export earnings will be available after the close of the financial year. The production achieved and capacity utilisation depends on production planning which the firms carryout, at the beginning of the financial year based on market assessment. The exact reasons for under utilisation of capacity is not known to the DoT.
(f) The following steps have been taken in this regard :
(i) Licenses for Services to be provided by private operators are having expedited.
(ii) Expeditious technology transfers, enhanced external commercial borrowings, permitting foreign investment through holding companies, nationalisation of duties etc.
LPT/HPT in Himachal Pradesh
1074. SHRI K.D. SULTANPURI : Will the Minister of INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING be pleased to state :
(a) the number of LPT ard HPT transmitters proposed to be set up in Himachal Pradesh to promote Doordarshan and to ensure coverage of Doordarshan all over the State;
(b) the provision of expenditure made for this purpose and the amount spent during the last six months in this regard;
(c) whether the requisite staff have been provided for maintenance of HPT Himachal Pradesh so far; (d) the details of the staff falling short for HPT at Simla; and
(e) the time by which the said staff is likely to be provided?
THE MINISTER OF CIVIL AVIATION AND MINISTER OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING (SHRI C.M. IBRAHIM): (a) One HPT, 6 LPTS and 23 VLPTs are, at present, under implementation/envisaged to be set up in Himachal Pradesh subject to availability of resources and other infrastructural facilities.
(b) The total Capital cost of the sanctioned projects is Rs. 1941 lakhs and the total expenditure incurred upto December, 1996 is Rs. 554.43 lakhs.
(c) The requisite staff for the HPTS in Himachal Pradesh has been sanctioned.
(d) and (e) Do not arise.
Gauge Conversion
1075. DR. BALIRAM: Will the Minister of RAILWAYS be pleased to refer to reply given to Unstarred Question No. 737 on July 16, 1996 and state :
(a) whether the conversion work of meter gauge line into broad gauge line between Shahganj and Mau Railway Station has been completed;
(b) if so, the details thereof and the total expenditure incurred thereon;
(c) the details of the long distance trains proposed to be run on this section; and
(d) the time by which the trains are likely to be started?
THE MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS (SHRI SATPAL MAHARAJ) : (a) Yes, Sir. (b) Total cost of the project is Rs. 43.83 cr.
(c) and (d) The matter is under consideration and action as found feasible and justified will be taken.
New Telephone Exchanges in Bihar
1076. SHRI DINESH CHANDRA YADAV Will the Minister of COMMUNICATIONS be pleased to state;
(a) whether the Government propose to open new telephone exchanges in Bihar during 1997-98; and (b) if so, the details thereof, District-wise?
THE MINISTER OF COMMUNICATIONS (SHRI BENI PRASAD VARMA) (a) Yes, Sir.
(b) The programme of 1997-98 has not been finalised yet.
Committee on Exploration of Diamond
1077. SHRI DADA BABURAO PARANJPE : Will the Minister of MINES be pleased to state :
(a) whether some State Government have constituted a high level committee to monitor various aspects of dimond mining and to ensure transparency in this regard; and