Experts predicted that the peak of the third wave of Covid-19 would witness four lakh daily cases. They set January 23 as the time when Covid-19 cases would swell to the maximum but the number didn’t cross the mark of four lakh. Since then the number of Covid-19 cases has been coming down. A little over 2. 34 lakh cases were reported in the last 24 hours, informed the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on January 30. The World Health Organization (WHO) has not kept India in a danger zone. When the second wave of Covid-19 – April 30, 2021 – was at its peak, there were 3. 86 lakh new cases. Then the proportion of fully vaccinated people was just two per cent. Now, 75 per cent of all adults are fully vaccinated. So far over 165. 70 crore vaccine doses have been administered under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive. Over four crore youngsters in the age group of 15-18 have been administered with the first dose of the vaccine. On an average, 60-70 lakh vaccine doses are administered every 24 hours.
 As a result, the severity of the third wave of Covid-19 is much less. There is no need to panic but to exercise precautions. One needs to stick to Covid appropriate behaviour. Wearing masks, use of sanitizer, social distancing, and avoiding crowded places are some of precautions we need to take diligently to defeat Covid-19. Healthy diet and exercise are equally important. Since strong immunity helps the body fight coronavirus properly, one should avoid junk food and opt for a healthy diet. Equally important is the need to make regular exercise and yoga a part of our daily routine. Thanks to the whole government approach of the Centre and the States, and colossal resilience and perseverance of corona warriors from different walks of life – doctors, paramedical staff, civil administration, NGOs, armed forces – helped India fight the menace of Covid-19 valiantly. The fight continues but we will decisively win the war against Covid-19. It is the collective confidence of the nation, and a great example of solidarity set before the world. In our sustained battle against multiple socio-economic, mental and psychological repercussions of Covid-19, the whole world also realized our prowess as a nation to deal with an unprecedented challenge like the coronavirus pandemic. From the use of technical platforms like CoWIN to firming up the supply chain, India has today become a hub of hope for humanity in its fight against Covid-19. We have effectively busted the myth that India is not too strong and well-prepared to withstand Covid-19 like shock. The leadership and vision of Prime Minister Narendra proved to the international community that India is capable of rising to the occasion with ease.
 India has been able to handle the third wave of Covid-19 so efficiently thanks to our aggressive vaccination drive. Every eligible person should go for vaccination without fail along with the booster dose, which is being given to elderly and others with comorbidities. It will also be a salute to our corona warriors, who braving odds and challenges, are reaching every nook and corner of the country to vaccinate the people. Instead of being discouraged by initial resistance from the people due to lack of awareness and superstition, they overcame all hurdles surmounted to keep vaccination drive smoother and flawless. Our seven vaccine makers – Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Zydus Cadila, Biological E, Gennova Biopharma and Panacea Biotech – also deserve the best of appreciation. They have proved their leadership capabilities at the world level. As on to date, more than 12. 84 crore balance and unutilized vaccine doses are available with States and UTs. The state of Haryana has emerged as a role model in Covid-19 management and vaccination drive. So far almost four crore doses of vaccines have been administered to protect the people from the onslaught of Covid-19. With each passing day, the pace and scope of vaccination is expanding marked by better planning and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. At the same, nothing is being left unturned to alleviate the woes of all sections of society caused by Covid-19. In a sentence, we are firmly dealing with Covid-19 with an inclusive approach!