Constitution (44th
[Shri Somnath Chatterjee] And therefore, the annihilate the right of people they did not spare the judiciary. And Sir, how were the Judges treated? Because some persons would not accept, would not like, particular judgments, those judges were sent out, contrary to the commitment made by the Congress party. Shri A. K. Sen made that commitment very solemnly. Dr. Seyid Muhammad reminded us of the congress party's performance of the old days. How was that commitment kept up? We know what Shri Gokhale had said. All those pledges and commitments cannot be followed now; now there are changed circumstances! Well, how many judges were thrown about here and there? One learned judge of the High Court was sent to the District. Court. Everybody knows that in this country. Persistent attempts were I made to denigrate the judiciary. Sir, the object of Art. 32 and Art. 226Sir probably I am quoting you, was to reach injustice wherever injustice was found. Why should there be any insistence on a particular number of judges to decide a particular matter? Why should they insist on a special majority of the judges. No explanation has been given at all. By the pe. culiar provision introduced in the 42nd Amendment Bill a minority can uphold a law which is otherwise arbitrary and unconstitutional. From the side of our hon friends here not a single explanation was given why that was justified, why they had supported them then. No such explanation has come from them. Had it come from them. I could have understood that they are really resentful or that their anguish is genuine. But nothing like that has happened and not a single explanation has been given. I am arguing a maiter before the supreme court and even though judges may be with me I cannot succeed although it is a matter concerning vitally the interest of the employees in this country.
Amendment) Bill 296
SHRI SOMNATH CHATTERJEE: Sir, even two are sufficient. Unless it is a perverted notion of judicial behaviour, how can they even dream of it? No explanation is given because they have none. Therefore, when the Government is trying to restore the previous position in deference to the people's mandate certainly, we with you and we shall support you.
MR. SPEAKER: I think two are sufficient.
MR. SPEAKER: Mr. Chatterjee, I think you have far exceeded your time.
SHRI SOMNATH CHATTERJEE: I am concluding. One thing I would request my hon. friends on this side to remember is this. As I said on another occasion last week, it seems that the emergency is till persisting in some of the places like Shastri Bhavan.
With greatest agony and anguish I heard the other day the arguments made by the present Attorney General that the law passed during the emergency was good particularly because of Art. 358 and 359 and they could not be challenged. When the present Attorney General was arguing I was reminded myself, of the arguments of the previous Attorney General when he said that the citizens had no right to live or no right even for personal liberty.
Therefore, Sir, please see that these aberrations may not be brought back again to deny some 40,000 employees of this country of the solemn agreement. The Attorney General is today arguing that emergency law cannot be touched because of Art. 358 and 359. Let this spirit be not there; let a different attitude be taken up.
Therefore, I submit that the Supreme Court and the High Court who are the sentinels for the maintenance of the democratic rights of this country as well as of the federal set-up in this country should not be interferred with in the manner as it has been