Today, a jail inmate has leveled allegations of assault on Central jail Patiala staff.
As per available information, an inmate Harmanjit Singh S/o Harjit Singh who is undergoing a sentence of “mobile phone recovery from him in jail case” has lodged a complaint that the jail staff has assaulted him inside the jail premises.
The jail authorities have already booked him thrice on charges of recovery of phones from. He is an under trial in case of section 395, 307 IPC.
When contacted the Patiala central jail authorities, they said “ he is undergoing a sentence in Patiala jail. The deputy superintendent of jails has gone on checking the “Hatha” where inmates were lodged. When the search team reaches at his barrack, he immediately broke his phone and flushed the same. In the mean time he assaulted himself and leveled allegation against the jail staff.
Today, the jail authorities has taken him to Govt Rajindra Hospital for medical checkup, where he alleged that that jail staff has assaulted him.
Strictness in jails-habitual offender alleges assault allegations on Patiala Jail staff . An official on the condition of anonymity said “after the new government has issued instructions to the jail staff to made jails as “Sudhar Ghar” and no one will be spared if any mobile phone is recovered from the jail. This has increased the anxiety amongst inmates and today’s incident is an example of this.
As per available information, more than 110 mobiles have been recovered in one month alone from Patiala Central jail.
Earlier, in order to convert the jails of the state into ‘Sudhar Ghar’ in real sense, Punjab Jails Minister Harjot Singh Bains has directed the department officials to explore the modalities to introduce a latest technology to completely stop the usage of mobile phones and locate them from inside the jail premises.
“To break the nexus of gangsters and criminals operating from jails, the Punjab government led by Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann has so far confiscated the maximum mobile phones from jails by launching a special drive. It will also be ensured in the future that there not even a single illegal activity could be done from inside the jails,” the minister had announced recently.