Senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader from Karnataka, KS Eshwarappa has predicted that the political situation prevailing in Maharashtra will soon occur in Karnataka as well. Eshwarappa was responding to a similar sentiment expressed by Janata Dal-Secular leader and former Karnataka Chief Minister HD Kumaraswamy.
 While Prime Minister Narendra Modi likened the promised ban on Bajrang Dal to locking up Hanuman and his devotees, former deputy chief minister KS Eshwarappa burnt the Congress manifesto, and Bajrang Dal activists tore the Congress document, hit it with slippers and held rallies in several parts of the state demonstrating their protest.
 Hitting out at the Congress, BJP leader Eshwarappa dubbed the Grand Old Party's manifesto a "manifesto of Muslim League (of Pakistan founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah)".
 Former Minister and BJP leader KS Eshwarappa has listed three reasons why the Bharatiya Janata Party would succeed in the 2023 Karnataka Assembly Election. The five-time member of the legislative assembly from Shivamogga in central Karnataka, who was denied a ticket this time around by the BJP, spoke to Asianet News Network.
 In June this year, Eshwarappa would turn 75, the unofficial age bar in the BJP for leaders to contest polls and hold official positions. Though there have been occasional exceptions as well.
 Recently, Muslim organisations in Chikkamagaluru, Karnataka submitted a memorandum to the District Commissioner and BJP national General Secretary CT Ravi to allow them to use loudspeakers for Azaan early in the morning during the Ramzan period.
 Bharatiya Janata Party MLA KS Eshwarappa decided not to attend the Karnataka legislature's ongoing winter session in Belagavi to protest not being appointed as a minister. He said, "Upon receiving a clean chit, the chief minister guaranteed me that he would speak to the party's high leadership and induct me into the cabinet. "
Days after the Udupi police booked him over the death of a contractor involved in government projects, Karnataka Minister KS Eshwarappa announced that he will step down Friday evening.
 Rural Development and Panchayati Raj minister KS Eshwarappa has been accused of corruption that allegedly led to the suicide of civil contractor Santosh Patil.
 An FIR has also been filed against the Minister in connection with the case and Eshwarappa has been summoned by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai.
 Civil contractor who alleged Karnataka Minister KS Eshwarappa's role in 40 per cent commission has committed suicide. The contractor left a WhatsApp message to his close friends and family holding Eshwarappa accountable for his death.
 UT Khader said that the state government failed to resolve the controversy before it went to court.
 The Congress leaders were demanding sacking Minister KS Eshwarappa for his controversial statement that the saffron flag will replace the national flag atop Red Fort one day. As Congress leaders displayed the national flag and raised slogans, the Speaker adjourned the Assembly on Thursday 10:30 am. Agitated by the Speaker's move, Karnataka Council members have decided to launch 'sleep inside council protest'.
 Karnataka minister KS Eshwarappa has made a controversial remark by comparing the Covid rules with 'graveyard'. The minister said that he and a few others will appeal to the CM in the Cabinet meeting to exempt a few districts from restrictions (curfew) as the situation is not like Bengaluru.
 Karnataka's Panchayat Raj Minister KS Eshwarappa has stirred yet another controversy by openly claiming that the anti-religious conversion bill is an RSS concept and it is done to save 'Hindus' from illegal religious conversion.