As part of observation of World Population Day, JansankhyaSthirataKosh (JSK), an autonomous body under the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare organised a “National Dialogue for Population Stabilization for Better Tomorrow” in New Delhi today.ShriGhulamNabi Azad, Union Minister of Health & Family Welfare and Smt. SantoshChowdhary, MoS for Health & Family Welfareparticipated in the inaugural programme.
In his address, Shri Azad saidas per 2011 Census, India’s total population is now1.21 billion. As perpopulation projection, India’s population would be 1.40 billion by 2026. In the next 15 years India’s population will exceed China, making the most populous country in the world. With only 2.4% of the entire world’s landmass to support 17% of the world population, the need for population stabilization can hardly be overemphasized. For this reason, the focus of the government has been on efforts to create awareness and persuade people to have small family sizes for the betterment of the health of the mother, the child and the whole family. He hoped Parliamentarians and Media would play a proactive role to create awareness about population explosion and need for population stabilization.
Addressing the National Dialogue, Smt. Chowdhary said the UPA Government has made ‘Health’ as most important sector to be focused during 12th Five Year Plan.This shows the commitment of UPA Government in building healthy, nourished and stronger India. This effort would go a long way to make our population healthy, strong and vibrant. To keep this promise, we have miles to go before we sleep, Smt. Chowdhary added.
The inaugural session was followed by a panel discussion under the chairmanship of ShriKeshavDesiraju, Secretary, Health and Family Welfare.
Around three hundred delegates from central governments, Principal Secretaries of Health and Mission Directors of NRHM of different states, District Magistrates of selected districts civil society, private and corporate sectors, development partners, International agencies, researchers, clinicians, participated in the National Dialogue.