The Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) have been unable to clinch an IPL title in 16 years, despite trying everything and everyone. The team has faced criticism for its impatience with squad construction and letting go of players at the wrong time. In a recent podcast, former RCB leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal expressed his displeasure with the franchise for not retaining him prior to the 2021 mega auction. Chahal was angry for two-three days after RCB promised to go all out for him but did not pick him.
He was disappointed with the way the franchise parted ways with him ahead of the IPL 2022 season. Chahal also revealed that he did not receive any phone call from the team. Chahal had said that he wanted to go back to RCB again in an interview with Ravichandran Ashwin on the latter’s YouTube channel. However, they did not even bid for him, and the Rajasthan Royals acquired him for INR 6.5 crore. The franchise has been criticized in the past by other former players for its lack of communication or team culture.
Criticism has been directed towards the team for its impatience with squad construction and the timing of letting go of players. The team has never managed to build a successful team, despite having some of the best players in the world. The team’s management has been criticized for not being able to create a winning culture in the team. The team has gone through several captains, coaches, and players, but has never been able to win the IPL title.
In the past, several former RCB players have criticized the team for its lack of communication or team culture. Kevin Pietersen, who played for RCB in 2009 and 2010, criticized the team’s management for not being able to create a winning culture. He said that the team’s management was not able to create a culture of winning, which is why the team has never been able to win the IPL title. He also criticized the team for not being able to retain its players.
The former RCB captain, Daniel Vettori, also criticized the team’s management for not being able to create a winning culture. He said that the team’s management was not able to create an environment where players could thrive and perform at their best. He also criticized the team for not being able to retain its players.
Former RCB player, Chris Gayle, criticized the team’s management for not being able to create a winning culture.