Pravin Tambe smashed a last ball four off left-arm seamer Ankur Singh as North Mumbai Panthers edged out ARCS Andheri in the first semifinal of T20 Mumbai at the Wankhede Stadium on Friday.
Tambe’s bold hit enabled Panthers score a two-wicket win against ARCS.
Earlier, Swapnil Salvi stole the thunder from Prithvi Shaw (76, 48b, 6x4, 3x6) as Panthers pursued a stiff target of 167.
The Andheri side appeared in control of the match when Panthers was reduced to 40 for three in the seventh over.
However, Shaw took over, flaying the ARCS bowlers to all parts of the field.
When a thigh strain began to bother Shaw, the stocky Salvi took charge with a flurry of boundaries.
The two added 114 for the fourth wicket off 66 balls before the former fell to left-arm spinner Iqbal Abdulla. Shaw had been lucky earlier when he was dropped on 31 and 66.
The Andheri side, with a number of experienced Ranji Trophy players, looked all ready for the first knockout match.
It did not waste the opportunity when put in to bat by Panthers captain Shaw. Led by a calculated assault by left-handed opener Akhil Herwadkar, his solid second-wicket partnership with Abdulla and an aggressive push by Shubham Ranjane towards the end, ARCS finished with a challenging total.
There was a nine-minute stoppage when the floodlights on the Garware Pavilion side failed, but Herwadkar continued to dominate the bowling and proceeded to make a stylish half-century.
Initially severe on seamers Atif Attarwala and Prathamesh Dake, the left-hander — a former India under-19 player — took a heavy toll on the Panthers spinners — Rahul Sawant, Vikant Auti and Tambe. Herwadkar and Abdulla raised 60 off 45 balls for the second wicket.
The Andheri side sustained its scoring rate of eight an over, having scored 47 for the loss of opener Kevin Almedia in PowerPlay.
After the departure of Abdulla — who was caught brilliantly a metre inside on the long-on boundary by Attarwala —, Herwadkar (69, 47b, 6x4, 2x6) and Ranjane scored freely and added 56 for the third wicket off 39 balls. Ranjane (51 not out, 34b, 5x4, 1x6) provided a classic final-ball finish with a six off Prathamesh Dake.
However, it was Tambe and Panthers who ruled the night.