'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean?
ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
Project management is a central component of any successful business. While ensuring you have the best personnel overseeing operations as possible is in your best interest, so is securing a verified and capable software that can streamline as many operations as possible to maximize efficiency and productivity.
An example of such software is Microsoft Visio 2021 Pro or Microsoft Project 2021 Pro. These productivity-enhancing suites could be invaluable for any professional with a PC or Windows device, and they're now on sale for only $30.
Microsoft's Visio is a project management tool with excellent diagramming tools, including flowcharts, organizational charts, brainstorming, and network diagrams. Visio's online content ecosystem features over 250,000 shapes to choose from when diagramming, and it can generate org charts from Excel, Microsoft Entra ID, and Exchange.
Meanwhile, Microsoft Project comes with a variety of helpful features and capabilities. Its pre-built templates will help guide your project management from the outset of a campaign to ensure it's well organized and attends to every area that needs attention. It can sync with Project Online and Project Server for easier collaboration and sharing with team members.
Among Project Professional's most attractive features is its support of timesheet submission and tracking for both project and non-project work. It can also run what-if scenarios to help determine whether or not task assignments are constructed in an ideal way.
It can even generate visual representations of complex schedules with different timelines built in, which can help your team maintain a holistic view of its operations and overall direction. It also supports long-term service channels or LTSC and comes compatible with Office LTSC and Office 2021.
Both lifetime licenses to Microsoft's comprehensive project management tools are one-time downloads suitable for a single Windows device. Upon purchase, users will gain instant access and free customer support.
Tackle professional projects more efficiently with help from Microsoft's top-rated suites.
Get Microsoft Project 2021 Professional for PC or Microsoft Visio 2021 Professional for Windows on sale for just $30 for a limited time only. No coupon required.