NASA’s Mars Ingenuity mini-helicopter had been scheduled for its first experimental flight on April 11, 2021, however, NASA had rescheduled its first experimental flight to no earlier than April 14. Now, the space agency has again delayed Ingenuity’s first flight on the red planet.
In an update posted on its official NASA Mars website, the Ingenuity team explained that “over the weekend, the team considered and tested multiple potential solutions to this issue, concluding that minor modification and reinstallation of Ingenuity’s flight control software is the most robust path forward”.
SEE ALSO: NASA Shares Breathtaking Image Of Our Milky Way Galaxy Captured From The International Space Station!
NASA further explains that this software update will help modify the process by which the two flight controllers in the mini-helicopter boot up. This will also allow the hardware and software to safely transition to the flight state.
The process of updating Ingenuity’s flight control software will follow a list of carefully planned steps including diagnosing the issue and development of potential solutions, validating and uploading software, loading flight software onto flight controllers, and booting up Ingenuity on new flight software.
“Once we have passed these milestones, we will prepare Ingenuity for its first flight, which will take several sols or Mars days.we are confident in the team’s ability to work through this challenge and prepare for Ingenuity’s historic first controlled powered flight on another planet,” said the Ingenuity team.
NASA had earlier postponed the helicopter’s first flight because the command sequence controlling the test ended early due to a “watchdog” timer expiration during a high-speed spin test of the rotors.
NASA has recently confirmed that its Ingenuity mars mini-helicopter had successfully touched down on the red planet to prepare for its first flight. NASA Ingenuity is attached to the belly of NASA’s Perseverance rover that touched down on Mars on February 18, 2021.
SEE ALSO: Researchers Discover Signs Of Life On Venus Using Data From NASA’s Pioneer Venus Multiprobe!