The apex court, which had ordered the demolition of the nearly 100-metre-tall structures, will take up the matter for hearing on August 12, according to the officials. The twin towers in Sector 93A are so far scheduled to be razed by controlled implosion at 2. 30 pm on August 21. The Supreme Court had ordered their demolition by August 28. The time between August 21 and 28 was kept as a buffer period.
 The Noida Authority will on Thursday file in the Supreme Court the status report on preparations for the demolition of Supertech 's illegal twin towers in the city, officials said, as it appeared that the blast date could be deferred from August 21. The apex court, which had ordered the demolition of the nearly 100-metre-tall structures, will take up the matter for hearing on August 12, according to the officials.
 The twin towers in Sector 93A are so far scheduled to be razed by controlled implosion at 2. 30 pm on August 21. The Supreme Court had ordered their demolition by August 28. The time between August 21 and 28 was kept as a buffer period.
 "The charging--rigging of explosives inside the structures--process in the twin towers is yet to begin. It would take around 15 days to charge the buildings. The approval of the CBRI, the technical expert on the project appointed by the Supreme Court, is pending,” an official said, requesting anonymity.
 The status report on demolition preparations would be filed in the Supreme Court tomorrow," the official added.
 Meanwhile, police said they have not yet been contacted for transporting the explosives, which are kept at a facility in Palwal, Haryana.
 "Police have already given its no-objection certificate. Police teams which will escort the vehicle carrying the explosives from Palwal to Noida in regulated quantities are ready whenever we get the order for it," said a senior official.
 Supertech's Apex and Ceyane towers in Noida Sector 93A are scheduled for demolition in pursuance of a Supreme Court order last August which noted that the structures had come up in violation of building norms.