Punjab Finance Minister Harpal Singh Cheema informed that 9,000 contractual employees have been made permanent.
 Chandigarh: The Punjab government made 9,000 contractual employees permanent due to which the process of giving out salaries to state government employees got delayed by 3-4 days. . . veryone's salaries have been released today, Finance Minister Harpal Singh Cheema said on Wednesday.
 The Punjab finance minister informed that 18,000 new recruitments have been done.
 Cheema confirmed that every employee will receive salary in his/her account by today evening, the Punjab minister stressed.
 The Punjab finance minister assured only the process got delayed and there is no shortage of money in the state and there is a continuous inflow of money into government's treasury.
 Cheema made the announcement a day after Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju on September 6 attacked Delhi Chief Minister and AAP convenor Arvind Kejriwal over a news report that the party-led Punjab government is yet to clear the salaries of its employees for August.
 The report had claimed that he Bhagwant Mann-led AAP government was did not have sufficient funds for paying its employees their August salaries.
 Taking aim at Delhi CM Kejriwal, Rijiju said the AAP chief speaks about making "India World No 1" but what has he done to "Punjab within a year? "
The Union minster alleged that huge revenue is "extravagantly wasted" in AAP-ruled Delhi as well.
 "Delhi is National Capital, and the per capita income of Delhi is three times higher than the average per capita of India. Huge revenue is extravagantly wasted! ," Rijiju tweeted.
 Interestingly, CM Mann made a sensational claim that because of some 'influential political families', youth had been deprived of employment opportunities in Punjab.
 "The hands of these families are drenched with treachery and ruining the future of younger generations. These families connived with forces for getting personal benefits and harming the interests of the state," the Punjab CM stressed.