HIT vs STR Dream11 Prediction, Fantasy Cricket Tips, Dream11 Team, Playing XI, Pitch Report, Injury Update of MCA T20 Super Series match between Hitters and Strikers. They will play against each other for the first time in this season of the MCA T20 Super Series.
HIT vs STR MCA T20 Super Series Match 3 Details:
The 3rd match of the MCA T20 Super Series will see Hitters facing off against Strikers on 5th March at the Kinrara Academy Oval.
For all the Dream11 Tips and Fantasy Cricket Live Updates, follow us on Cricketaddictor Telegram Channel.
This game is scheduled to start at 1:30 PM IST and live score and commentary can be seen on FanCode and CricketAddictor website.
HIT vs STR MCA T20 Super Series Match 3 Preview:
The MCA T20 Super Series will see its third match of this season between Hitters and Strikers.
Hitters will be facing off against Strikers for the first time in the third match of this season of the MCA T20 Super Series.
Hitters is currently placed at the second position on the points table of this season of the MCA T20 Super Series whereas Strikers is currently placed at the top of the points table.
Hitters played one match in this season of the MCA T20 Super Series which got abandoned due to rain while Strikers also played one game in this season where they beat Warriors by 6 wickets.
HIT vs STR MCA T20 Super Series Match 3 Weather Report:
The temperature is expected to hover around 29°C on the matchday with 70% humidity and 5 km/hr wind speed. There are 55% chances of precipitation during the game.
HIT vs STR MCA T20 Super Series Match 3 Pitch Report:
The pitch at the Kuala Lumpur is a balanced one, with decent assistance for both batters and bowlers on offer. It is expected to provide some initial help to the swing bowlers and the spinners did not get much help from the wickets.
Average 1st innings score:
The average first innings score on this wicket is 147 runs.
Record of chasing teams:
The team batting second doesn’t enjoy good records here. They have a winning percentage of 40 on this track.
HIT vs STR MCA T20 Super Series Match 3 Injury Update:
(Will be added when there is an update)
HIT vs STR MCA T20 Super Series Match 3 Probable XIs:
Top Picks For Dream11 Prediction and Fantasy Cricket Tips:
Syed Aziz is a left-handed batsman and right-arm medium pacer from Hitters.
Virandeep Singh is a right-handed batsman and left-arm orthodox spinner from Strikers. He hammered 63 runs in the last game.
Aimal Khan is a left-handed batsman and right-arm medium pacer from Strikers. He smashed 28 runs and took 1 wicket in the last match.
Ainool Hafizs is a right-handed batsman and right-arm medium pacer from Strikers. He got out on a duck in the last match but can score big in the upcoming match.
HIT vs STR MCA T20 Super Series Match 3 Captain and Vice-Captain Choices:
Suggested Playing XI No.1 for HIT vs STR Dream11 Team:
Suggested Playing XI No.2 for HIT vs STR Dream11 Team:
Batsmen – Virandeep Singh , Ainool Hafizs (VC), Syed Aziz (C)
HIT vs STR MCA T20 Super Series Match 3 Expert Advice:
Virandeep Singh will be a safe captaincy choice for the mini grand leagues. Mohammad Siyadat Ramli and Asby Tan Haris are among the punt-picks here. The best-suggested fantasy/Dream11 combination for this game is 1-3-4-3.
HIT vs STR MCA T20 Super Series Match 3 Probable Winners:
Strikers are expected to win this match.