Hello Friends,
Click on the links and then answer respective questions!
1. Deepak is posted as the Deputy Commissioner of Police in a busy urban district of a Metropolitan city. The students of a reputed university are planning a massive protest rally against a bill passed by the Central Government. Although, the permission has been granted by the administration for peaceful assembly, Deepak has a strong and highly reliable intel that some miscreants might disguise as students and cause violence in the rally. Deepak requests his superior and persuades him to put a stay on the rally. The students are enraged by this decision and launch a campaign on social media demanding the resignation of top police officials including Deepak’s for having denied the permission for a democratic and peaceful protest. In a matter of hours, Deepak becomes the centre of online vitriol and thousands of memes. It hurts Deepak a lot. Even his family is highly perturbed by the series of events in Deepak’s professional life.
How do you read this situation? Don’t you think social media has made governance difficult? With social media having become an integral part of public life, is it even possible to get completely detached from the virtual world and do one’s job? What qualities Deepak must possess to overcome this phase in his life? Should he respond to these personal attacks and mudslinging on the social media platforms or should he remain silent and just keep doing his job? Analyse.
2. You have joined as the Director of Operations in a government department. After joining the office, you start getting signals from your colleagues and subordinates that your’s is a plum posting. Your predecessors have made fortunes out of this post and you are lucky to have got this position without actually even having bribed the superiors. They also start sharing ideas on how to extract quick fortunes by misusing your powers. Being an honest officer, you squarely refuse the ideas and tell them you have no such intentions. Within a week, you are called by your reporting officer who ridicules you for being naive and stupid for having refused to earn good money. He tells you that he is fine with your honesty though and that you are free to choose your saintly path. However, you must keep your mouth shut and don’t interfere with the processes already defined and established by your predecessors. He also threatens that you shall be shunted to a remote location if you don’t copy with his directions.