The state government’s ‘random’ and ‘sudden’ transfers of officials without ‘following the Transfer Act, 2005’ has drawn the ire of the latter who had filed a writ petition in the Bombay High Court last month questioning such moves. While the first hearing of the case is slated for Monday, officials said that incidences of sudden transfers have increased during the present government’s tenure.
 While the usual annual transfers in April-May are ‘acceptable’, and officials are not hesitating from election duty transfers, those other than these anytime of the year as issued by the state government are a clear violation of rules, point out the 10 officials from the Pune division who had filed the writ petition on June 26.
 The officials said that such transfers have affected nearly 1,000 employees in various offices on a ‘pack and move’ mode.
 Nagesh Patil, tehsildar of Pandharpur and one of the petitioners, said that the ‘erroneous’ policy without following the Transfer Act is disturbing family life, and particularly, the education of children.
 “On account of this policy, not less than 1,000 officers are likely to be transferred. The administration’s transfer expenses come to nearly Rs 15,000 for every transfer, thus burdening the state exchequer with crores of rupees,’’ he said.
 Another petitioner from Pune district, tehsildar Dashrat Kale said that while officials are posted on election duty to another district other than their home district, they are again transferred further to some other place which completely disturbs their schedule.
 In the petition, the petitioners have stated that Section 3 of the Transfer Act, 2005, says that the normal tenure for a post of All India Service officers and all groups (A, B and C) or employees shall be three years.
 Section 4 (1) says that no government servant shall ordinarily be transferred unless he has completed his tenure of posting as provided in Section 3 and such transfers are ordinarily affected in April-May.
 “For a mid-term transfer, the competent authority must be satisfied that the transfer is essential due to exceptional circumstances after recording the same in writing and with prior approval of the next higher authority. For this, there must be a finding on the file that a particular officer has some political bias. Without all these, the transfers are being done,’’ states the petition which is signed by the 10 officials, all of whom are tehsildars.
 The petitioners have challenged this clause calling the orders ‘erroneous’, ‘not maintainable under law’ and ‘against the principles of justice’. While transfers during elections are done, further transfers does not fit the rule.
 The petition said that article 243K (3) does not permit the state election commission and the state government to transfer its employees during election and continue the said transfer order even after the elections are over.
 The petition submits that Section 9A (4) of the Maharashtra Zilla Parishad and Panchayat Samiti Act, 1961, does not permit the state election commission and the state government to effect transfers contrary to the Transfer Act, 2005. While the BJP-Shiv Sena government has completed its second year in office, it is increasingly seen that the government has been constantly transferring officials, some of whom have not even completed their term, and on the contrary, retaining some even after they have completed their terms.
 “Abrupt decisions and transfers are frequent in the present regime and even as male officers are affected, female officers are finding it increasingly difficult with such a system,’’ said a senior official from Pune, who was given a deputation of one year at an institution, and was again given marching orders to another district.
 Senior bureaucrats too have faced the ire with many being transferred mid-term. “This was seen in the case of the abrupt transfer of IAS officer Pravin Gedam and many others who have not completed their terms,’’ said an official.