Morning brought a revelation that we were in the cold zone. The night had been chilly and even the single odd blanket we had opted for was not enough. We loaded up the cars and moved on leaving friends behind with their daily rituals.
 By Rahul Ghosh: Morning brought a revelation that we were in the cold zone. The night had been chilly and even the single odd blanket we had opted for was not enough. We loaded up the cars and moved on leaving friends behind with their daily rituals.
 Being in Kaza it was obvious that we visit the Key monastery. Located at 13,668ft, it is the biggest monastery of Spiti Valley and a religious training centre for lamas.
 It is also a perfect place to witness what a tough life these lamas lead. The monastery located high up on the hills can be spotted from the main highway outside Kaza. We pulled up on this beautiful stretch of tarmac to do the customary shoots.
 We even harped about how good the road was and that it would be brilliant if it was like this all the way ahead. Little did we know that this would be the only little stretch of tarmac we would encounter between Kaza and Keylong.
 The journey continued further north and we were heading towards yet another high mountain pass, this time Kunzum la. Kunzum la is located at 15,060ft and the climb up is anything but easy. The tarmac had ended long ago and our average speeds had reduced drastically.
 What seemed to be a rather easy journey had turned into a dusty ordeal. Shooting in these conditions was also proving to be rather difficult as the scare of cameras jamming up came into mind.
 But the Mercedes continued relentlessly. To keep the inside relatively dust-free, we rolled up the windows and kept the climate control system in recirculatory mode. After going on for a relatively long time, we decided to take a break. The surroundings were beautiful and this gave us the opportunity to soak in the natural beauty.
 But little did we realize that this stop would become one of the scariest stops on this journey. We stepped out of the car and looked around. All around, we could see rock faces.
 Big rocks, small rocks and some really big ones seemed to be delicately balanced waiting to tip over and come crashing down. A few meters from where the Merc was parked, we heard some noises.
 In the split second it took us to turn around, we saw rocks sliding. Suddenly the team realized that we were witnessing a land slide live! Within seconds we fired up the Merc and stabbed the accelerator.
 The Merc inspite of being on gravel gripped and with the traction control light blipping we lurched forward. Stones rather large sized were sliding down as we narrowly escaped getting stranded or crushed. It was a rather scary ordeal as we moved forward with one thing in mind, look around before you stop!
 After our land slide ordeal we desperately needed some blessings and the sight of Kunzum la in the horizon surely came as one. While Kunzum is much like any other mountain pass, locals seemed to have taken the project of keeping the place well decorated.
 There is an approachway created by prayer flags and as one drives in the noise of the flags fluttering is pure bliss. It is as if the flags are chanting the prayers sending them to the heavens. Up ahead lies the Kunzum Mata temple and by no means anyone passes by before offering prayers here.
 We too followed the rituals! A local bus driver intrigued by seeing a Mercedes-Benz here got chatting with us. The only thing we were concerned about was the road ahead and the only thing he said was it was going to get tough and Keylong would come up by night!
 We left as the flags kept fluttering in the direction we were travelling. Perhaps the Gods were with us. The road continued to pound the Merc's suspension and we carried on at a relatively slow pace with constant concentration on the road. The only thing we wanted to save the Merc from were the sharp rocks which were on the lookout for poor tyres.
 A couple of hours later we reached the base and saw quite a few local buses parked near a dhaba. We too pulled up and ordered for some hot noodles and tea.
 The eatery was run by an elderly couple and they had many tales to tell. As we slurped through our food, the gentleman started chatting. He said a few years back, this area witnessed a sudden burst of snowfall.
 It was much like any other day and there were many tourists around. As the snowfall started getting heavier people kept coming in. In all, 109 people were stranded in this tiny shed.
 The couple continued to offer their services. Women and kids were given priority and for the rest, food was rationed. A few days later when the roads opened, people started moving out.
 Some had money to pay them and some didn't. Surprisingly enough he said that one of the guys he saved returned to the area after three years and repayed them! What a savior they were.
 God knows what would have happened to those 109 people who got stranded there! So if you're reading this and think you were one of the people who got saved that day, write to us! We moved on as the sun started setting and crossed our fingers.
 Once dark, progress became rather slow. The roads had completely disappeared and driving through the dark was nothing else but dangerous. At one stage we came across a rather steep climb. There were jagged rocks ahead and a stream was flowing on it too!
 We kept on thinking if this was the road. One look up and we could see trucks coming down what looked like tarmac. We zoomed out on the Merc's sat nav and found that we were very close to Rohtang la.
 With no other option, we gingerly started the climb. The Merc inched ahead with wheels articulated. Creaks sometimes crept in but we kept going. A few minutes later just as we reached the top, we spotted a big rock in the middle of the road. With no other option, we got off with the Merc precariously held by the parking brake. Somehow we managed to move the rock a few inches just to make enough space for the Merc to pass.
 With the rock millimeters away from the Merc on one side and the cliff on the other side, we made it through. The next few hundred meters were confusing but we got to the main highway where we spotted tarmac after a full day! We literally broke into a bhangra dance on sighting this pristine road as we sped to Keylong!