Azad, 73, snapped his ties with the Congress on August 26, terming the party "comprehensively destroyed". He also slammed party leader Rahul Gandhi for "demolishing" the party's entire consultative mechanism.
 Srinagar: Former Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, who recently broke his five-decade-long association with the party, on Thursday, said that the party fired missiles on him but he retaliated with a 303 rifle and they were destroyed.
 “They (Congress) fired missiles on me, I only retaliated with a 303 rifle and they were destroyed. What would have happened had I used a ballistic missile? " said Azad while addressing a public rally in Bhaderwah in Jammu and Kashmir.
 Azad, 73, snapped his ties with the Congress on August 26, terming the party "comprehensively destroyed". He also slammed party leader Rahul Gandhi for "demolishing" the party's entire consultative mechanism.
 In his five-page resignation letter, he termed the former Congress president as “immature” and “childish” and accusing the leadership of “foisting a non-serious individual” at the helm of the party.
 “One of the most glaring examples of this immaturity was the tearing up of a government ordinance in the full glare of the media by Shri Rahul Gandhi,” he said.
 “The said ordinance was incubated in the Congress Core Group and subsequently unanimously approved by the Union Cabinet presided over by the Prime Minister of India and duly approved even by the President of India. This ‘childish’ behaviour completely subverted the authority of the Prime Minister and Government of India,” said Azad, who served as Health Minister in the UPA-II government.
 Following Azad’s resignation, more than 50 senior Congress leaders, including former Jammu and Kashmir deputy chief minister Tara Chand, resigned from the party in support of him.
 Days after his sudden exit from the Congress, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister launched a veiled attack on Rahul Gandhi and said he gave “sweat and blood” for the party unlike those who are spreading falsehood through social media.
 "The people who want to defame me have their reach only on Twitter or computer, propagating falsehood through SMS, which is the main reason why Congress has vanished from the ground," Azad said in an apparent reference to Gandhi.
 At his first public rally on Sunday after exiting the Congress, Azad spelled out the agenda of his yet-to-be-named party -- the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir's statehood, protection of land and job rights of its residents, and the return and rehabilitation of Kashmiri Pandits.
 Ajit Pawar Claims To Have Support Of 40 MLAs; Who Is Controlling NCP Now Ajit Or Sharad Pawar?