Feel Special in Dubai: February is special for two reasons- the shortest month in the year and it’s the month that hosts Valentine’s Day. There are times when you really need to deliver and one of those times is when celebrating your Valentine day.
Valentine’s Day is around the corner and you must have already racked your brains, in order to come up with some out of the box ideas to spend the perfect Valentine’s Day in Dubai. With so many options out there, zeroing on one perfect idea is quite a task. Worry not.
Dubai is the world’s romantic destinations for Valentine’s Day celebrations and events. Romance is an understatement when it comes to the activities in Dubai for spending intimate time with your loved one. The attraction of henna Brown, salmon shaded sand of an evening desert landscape is just a pinch of the beauty that makes Dubai your destination.
Check the exciting activities listed here and you’re bound to find that will suit the adventure seeker, the foodie or the romantic one alike. These activities will make your day a memorable one.
Dinner in the sky Dubai:
One for the Adrenaline junkies and foodies like, Dubai’s newest attraction is certainly unique in its concept namely dining 50 meters up in a suspended crane. You’ll need a stomach for heights.
Celebrate at Royal desert camp at Sahara.
The quite desert, the beautiful sunset and the wonderful live entertainment will set the right tone for your memorable evening. Your tour will begin with a ride through the desert and along with it seeing an endless sea of mystical golden sand dunes. You’ll arrive at the unique Tour Dubai Desert fortress.
There you’ll have a range of activities that will surely keep you entertained throughout the entire night. You can take part in activities like dune bashing, camel and horse riding, falcon display and much more. You can have a delicious 5-star dinner. You’ll enjoy a mix of live Arabian music, a belly dance show, and a fire show. The night will end with a beautiful sunset.
Dubai Helicopter Tour:
Want to pamper your partner? Arrange for a Dubai Helicopter tour. The Dubai Helicopter Tour will entice you with the most incredible sights of Dubai’s glittering skyline, including views of Dubai’s famous landmarks- The Palm Jumeirah, Atlantis the Palm and Burj Khalifa. The beauty of Dubai’s most flamboyant sites like the exotic souks, historical Dubai Creek, the striking Burj Al Arab hotel, the Wild Wadi adventure water Park, the sail-shaped Jumeirah Beach Hotel and many more.
Private Dinner on the beach:
Take it one step further this V-Day with a private dinner at the beach with your S. O. Can’t you just picture the twinkle of the fairy lights making for the most ideal mood lighting the romantic set up of the canopy on the beach, the cool grains of sand between your toes as you both feast on a four-course meal. Enjoy some much-needed privacy.
Treat your partner in Style:
A Dhow Cruise is conducted on the Dubai Creek and Dubai Marina. A typical Dhow cruise lasts for about 2 hrs and includes pickup and drop services, dinner and entertainment. Experience the romantic feeling while enjoying a ride on a Dhow boat, cruising down the shimmering waterways with the cool breeze caressing your hair and the magnificent Dubai skyline followed by a sumptuous meal on board.
Make it a Yacht Valentines:
The best way to celebrate Valentine’s Day in Dubai is on board a luxury Yacht. The experience is more romantic, relaxing and private. Exclusive Yacht presents you our impressive display of yachts from signature to premium collection that you can charter with your loved ones.
The classic Dinner and a Movie:
Nothing beats the age-old formulae of a great movie and a romantic dinner. Doesn’t mean a movie followed by a meal. Explore a little and make it special when planning Valentine’s Day. The amazing weather is perfect to watch a movie at one of the outdoor cinemas in Dubai. Try making dinner reservation well in advance at an elegant restaurant you will both love.
Hot Air Balloon Ride:
For an experience of a lifetime, whisk away your sweetheart for a memorable hot-air balloon ride. There is nothing like chasing the first rays of the sun and treating your eyes with enchanting views of the endless desert. As the hot air balloon glides over the Dubai Desert you will see a variety of native animals such as the gazelle, oryx, and camels lounging around.
Dinner at a floating Restaurant:
Dinner on the sea is just the thing you need to set the scene and make sure everything is smooth sailing between you and your S.O. they’ll be serving a delicious four-course spread with Valentine’s themed dishes like the beetroot heart shaped kebabs as well as their Lucknow love silken lamb galouti served with original style to give you a little taste.
The fact that Valentine’s Day Dubai 2019 is coming on a day before the weekend. It is really is a blessing in disguise. The roads are free of traffic on a weekday making it easy to go zip-zap zoom with your partner to nearby places. Pack a small picnic basket, hop onto your 4X4 WD, load the stereo with your favorite romantic songs on and go vroom with your loved ones.
If you fancy getting away from all the hustle and bustle, why not plan a romantic camping date under the stars? Adventure Emirates Bedouin Igloo experiencing in Ras Al Khaimah not only offers stunning dune views but also includes a tent equipped with mattresses, pillows, and blankets to ensure a restful night sleep.
For a wow-worthy Valentine’s Day head to Level 42 at the Shangri-La for a perfect dinner on the terrace. Watch the stunning views of Downtown and the Burj and a specially curated five-course menu. The package is bubbly and is set to the sounds of a live harpist.
You’ve been together for long and have been out on a romantic date maybe a hundred times. So do something out of the ordinary this Valentine.