The Twenty20 format is certainly a version of the game which continues to remain popular among the masses. With an event guaranteed almost every ball, the format delivers what it sets out to- entertainment- almost every single time and it continues to enthrall fans all over the world.
Here are 4 players who have made an international hundred as well as an IPL hundred:
The former Sri Lankan captain, who was the victorious 2014 World T20 campaign in Bangladesh, scored his maiden T20I hundred against Zimbabwe in the 2010 edition of the competition, held in the West Indies.
Opting to bat first, the right-hander struck a 64-ball 100 to take his side to 173 for 7 in their 20 overs.
In response, Zimbabwe found themselves at 29 for 1 when rain arrived and eventually led to the match being decided via the Duckworth/Lewis method, where the Zimbabweans were found to be 14 runs behind the par score, thereby resulting in a Sri Lankan win.
A month prior to the competition, however, Jayawardene had helped the Kings XI Punjab chase down a total of 201 with 10 balls to spare, by scoring a century again while the opening the batting, making a 59-ball 110 that paved the way for an eight-wicket win for his side.
The Indian left-hander set the benchmark for the rest of his teammates when he became the first player from his country to score a T20I hundred during the World T20 in the West Indies against South Africa.
In the Indian Premier League, Raina was one of the most prolific batsmen, having not missed a single game for the Chennai Super Kings and in 2013, he came up with one of his best performances at home against the Kings XI Punjab when he slammed an unbeaten 100 off 53 balls to help his side post 186 runs on the board that eventually proved to be for the opposition, who fell short by 15 runs.
He will hope to play a similar kind of innings for the Gujarat Lions in the upcoming season as well.
The former New Zealand skipper became the fourth batsman in 2012 to register a three-figure score against Bangladesh in the World T20I game being played at Pallekelle. Walking out to bat at Number 3, the right-hander smashed a 58-ball 123 to help his side post 191 for 3 in their 20 overs.
The total proved to be a bit too large for the Tigers and they eventually lost by 59 runs. When the IPL was first introduced in 2008, no one quite knew what to expect. McCullum though gave a small hint when on the opening night of the competition, he smashed an unbeaten 158 off 73 balls to set the ball rolling.
It was an astonishing performance and one which is still remembered by fans 9 years later. If he can produce a similar performance in the 10th edition, then he would surely find himself in the list of greats the League has seen.
The undisputed King of T20 cricket. There are certain players who bring crowds into the venue almost single-handedly and the Jamaican is surely one of them. He holds the unique distinction of being the only player to make two T20I hundreds, both of which have come at the World T20 stage.
In the IPL, Gayle has made the most number of hundreds for any batsman with 5, all of which have come while playing for the Royal Challengers Bangalore. The left-hander is 37 and surely in the final stages of his career and one hopes that before he retires from the game, he gives plenty more thrilling moments for the fans to cherish.