Don’t Miss Out on the Latest Updates.
 Subscribe to Our Newsletter Today!
 Toronto: The key objective of US Secretary of State John Kerry’s recent visit to India was “to keep the lines of communications open with India as the relationship between the two countries is in the doldrums,” says a distinguished professor.
 After meeting External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, Kerry said his country supports India for a permanent membership of the UN Security Council.
 “It is a long-term thing and also, any resolution for expansion of the Security Council will be vetoed by China,” explained Kapur in an interview.
 On the other hand, Canada, despite a close relationship with India, is not supporting India’s claim in this respect.
 “Canada is opposed to any expansion of the UN Security Council. Moreover, Canada has been sidelined in the Security Council. They even lost their claim for temporary membership of the Security Council to Portugal. On that the American attitude is positive but not very relevant at this stage,” Kapur maintained.
 To him, positive outcome from Kerry’s visit were two-folds: One that they agreed on the importance of building Indo-American-Japanese ties involving India’s North-east.
 According to Kapur, it has a double significance. Firstly, North-East has been neglected so far.
 “It is a good thing that prime minister has put a military man as head of the indian North-Eastern region,” stated Kapur.
 “Besides law and order question, Modi has to make it sure there’s emphasis on development of North-East so that the region doesn’t slip away into the Chinese orbit,” he added.
 Washington’s emphasis on building these relationships (in regard to the North-East) have geopolitical significance and it is being done in conjunction with the Japanese, he said.
 “So it will become an economic corridor. It also sends a message to the Chinese to stop meddling in this part of the world,” Kapur emphasized.
 There is also an “ongoing naval cooperation between the US and the Indian navies. It is tied to keep the Indian Ocean safe. The positive aspect is the Indian and the American navies are genuinely interested in building this relationship,” said Kapur.
 On the question on Middle-East, the Indo-Canadian scholar said there is a moral and political vacuum.
 “India is very uncomfortable with the lack of the American leadership in the Middle East as this vacuum has given a great deal of sustenance to the militant element in Pakistan. It is indirectly providing them a lot of moral support. And the fact that US is withdrawing from Afghanistan, the Taliban and Jihadi forces are getting a lot of support. The arena is wide open for the Jihadis and the Taliban to be free to do their activities in South Asia,” he said.
 Part of these developments, Kapur said, could be some activities by the Pakistani militant element against India.
 “The first shot is being fired by British MPs. Close to 40 of them are moving a resolution in the British House of Commons to have a special parliamentary discussion on human rights situation in Kashmir — a move that goes in favor of the Pakistani military and the militant element, said Kapur, the author of several books on the Indian sub-continent.
 If there is a support in India, how could British MPs, simply by moving a resolution in their Parliament, pre-empt what’s in India’s national interest?
 “I have no evidence that there was any previous discussion between the British MPs and the Obama Administration on the question of Kashmir,” noted Kapur.
 Other global issues that come in the way of Indo-US relations include the World Trade Organization and the lack of the agreement on the climate change.
 Last, the Obama administration is keen on selling defense equipments to India. It means billions of dollars worth of trade.
 “India wants local technology and US should sell the technology and not just the equipments. The US is not accepting that and so the defense cooperation between the two countries is not moving forward. These are sticking points: Should India agree to import the defense equipments and depend on the US in perpetuity or India has a right to manufacture once there’s transfer of technology? ” asked Kapur.
 What kind of equation this India-US relations has on India-Canada relations?
 This story originally appeared on The Indian Diaspora.
 For breaking news and live news updates, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Read more on Latest The Indian Diaspora News on India. com.