- 5 hrs ago 5 Best Microwave Ovens For Your Kitchen: Deals To Consider As Amazon Sale 2023 Is Nearing!
 - Movies Bigg Boss OTT 2 | Palak Purswani REACTS To Avinash-Falaq’s New Found Love: 3 Hafte Me Kisi Ko Pyar Nahi Hota….
 - Travel Have you been to Vishveshwaraya Falls in Mandya yet? If not, this is the best time!
 Practices not generally recognized by the medical community as standard or conventional medical approaches and used instead of standard treatments are known as Alternative medicine.
 Treatment systems like chiropractic, herbal medicine, acupuncture, homeopathy, naturopathy, and spiritual devotions and culturally based healing traditions like Chinese, Ayurvedic, and Christian Science come under the ambit of Alternative medicine.
 Scientific community define alternative medicine as any treatment, the efficacy and safety of which has not been verified through peer reviewed controlled studies.
 US. National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine(NCCAM) defines complementary and alternative medicine as "a group of diverse medical and health care systems, practices, and products that are not presently considered to be part of conventional medicine". Complementary medicine is used in conjunction with conventional medicine whereas alternative medicine is used in place of conventional medicine.
 Alternative medicine and modern society.
 The difference starts from the definiton of health itself. Conventional medicine defines health as the absense of diseases. This is a negative definition. But alternative medicine defines it as a state of complete physical, mental, and social well-being.
 Bernie S. Siegel, M. D criticizes this approach of conventional medicine in his book "Love, Medicine and Miracles," "Despite the insights of some eminent doctors, medicine still focuses on disease, giving it a failure orientation. Its practitioners still act as though disease catches people, rather than understanding that people catch disease by becoming susceptible to the seeds of illness to which we are all constantly exposed. Although the best physicians have always known better, medicine as a whole has rarely studied the people who don't get sick. Most doctors seldom consider how a patient's attitude towards life shapes that life's quantity and quality. "
Those who use conventional medicine seek treatment only when they are ill. They don't focus on preventive treatment. But alternative medicine focuses on preventive treatment. According to alternative medicine, health is a balance of body system-mental, emotional, and spiritual, as well as physical. It uses therapies to strengthen body's own defenses and restore balance.
 One cannot feel the result of alternative medicine overnight. But it is a slow process. Result will not be at the expense of side effects. Alternative medicine recognizes human body's resistance. When diseases occur, it seeks the ways to strengthen this natural resistance.
 Alternative treatment methods are very effective in treating both major and minor medical conditions. It empowers patients.