TCS and Infosys will release their Q3 earnings today amid expectations of weak numbers. However, bulls believe that this could be the last dull quarter before revenue growth picks up in Q4. Analysts anticipate TCS to deliver 1.5% QoQ cc revenue growth driven by large deal ramp-ups, with margin expansion driven by operational efficiencies. On the other hand, Infosys is expected to see a decline in USD revenue due to seasonal furloughs and the impact of a slowdown in discretionary tech spending.
It is a well known fact that equities are fraught with risk. But the word “risk” also needs to be further looked into. In equities the risk is more in the short term, over longer term, it is not very high. Also, when diversified in the manner that exposure is to different segments of an economy, risk of a sharp decline in value comes down. Another way to manage risk is that when valuations are high, move to companies which have strong and large balance sheets and have seen many economic cycles and have survived the slowdowns in the past.
On this week's strategy, Rupak De, Senior Technical analyst at LKP Securities, said that the strength may continue as long as the Nifty index remains above 19,600. "The bulls were able to protect the level of 19,600 during the Friday session, thanks to the strong open interest (OI) build-up at the 19,600 strike price by put writers. Only a decisive fall below 19,600 might trigger serious long unwinding in the market, till then a buy on dips strategy to favour the market," De said.
Last week both Nifty and to some extent even mid-cap indices saw some correction. But mid-caps are still a part of the ongoing party on the street. Stocks from sectors like fertilizer, wealth management, specialty chemicals have come on the list. ET screener powered by Refinitiv’s Stock Report Plus applies different algorithms & filters to all BSE and NSE stocks, and lists stocks which fulfill the various criteria as specified into the algorithms & filters to find those which might help navigate the stock market.
In the last one month as more and corners of Dalal street come under control of bulls, stocks from different sectors have seen an improvement in their analyst scores. The selected stocks depict a strong upward trajectory in their overall average score which is based on five key pillars i.e. earnings, fundamentals, relative valuation, risk and price momentum. This implies that there has been a significant improvement in their market outlook in the given time frame.
"After consolidating for the last few days, Nifty has managed to surpass the resistance of 18450 zones. We expect this momentum to continue and Nifty to touch its previous lifetime high in the coming weeks. The index is now just 380 points or 2% away from its lifetime high. With the result season nearing its end, the focus will now shift to macro data, US debt negotiations and upcoming central bank policy meetings," said Siddhartha Khemka, Head - Retail Research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services.
Telangana SSC Results 2023 date is nearing as the Directorate of Government Examinations, Telangana, has made an official announcement regarding the release date of the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examinations for class 10.
On the list is the auto major, which after many quarters has shown improvement on all counts. Also coming on the list is a finance company which after the recent change in ownership has been expanding into new areas after shedding its housing finance business. These companies have come on the list because their scores have inched up and also their prices have moved up in the last one month. ET screener powered by Refinitiv’s Stock Report Plus applies different algorithms & filters to all BSE and NSE stocks, and lists down stocks which fulfill the various criteria as specified into the algorithms & filters.
"India outperformed the rest of Asia and the developed markets in April with a smart rally mainly assisted by sudden change of strategy by the FIIs who have turned big buyers in the market in the last two trading days," V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, said.
Glenmark Life Science's Q4 profit jumped 48% YoY to Rs146 crore, while revenue from operations rose 21% YoY to Rs621 crore. Its EBITDA grew 45.2% YoY to Rs206.4 crore with 33.2% margins YoY, benefiting from high CDMO contribution, better product mix, PLI scheme benefit, and lower input costs. The company's generic API revenues rose 15% YoY. Glenmark Life is a leading manufacturer of high-value, non-commoditised APIs. The stock has surged 23% YTD and 37% in the last month trading at Rs516 on BSE.
Nifty companies, including HUL, Axis Bank, and Wipro, are set to announce their fourth-quarter earnings today. HUL is expected to report double-digit revenue growth led by price hikes, while Axis Bank's bottom line is likely to be dampened due to one-off costs from integrating Citibank India's business. Meanwhile, Wipro's revenue growth in constant currency terms is forecasted to be soft due to slower conversion and weakness in consulting. Bajaj Finserv's sales are expected to grow at 34%, while PAT could rise by 51% YoY.
In the Sensex pack, Asian Paints, NTPC and Tata Motors were the top gainers, rising over 1%. Bharti Airtel, L&T, SBI, Wipro and Maruti also closed with gains. Whereas, HUL, Sun Pharma, Infosys, UltraTrch Cement and Bajaj Finance settled in the red.
The result of the ICAI CA Foundation exam held in December 2022 is likely to be out in the first week of February. Candidates are now waiting for the official announcement of the date from ICAI on the icai.org website.
Asian shares rallied at the open on Wednesday on hopes that the current corporate earnings season will suggest companies are withstanding the impact of higher inflation and rising interest rates. MSCI's index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was up by 1.27 per cent.
It reported a consolidated profit of Rs 158 crore for the quarter ending 31 March, down 58% year-on-year. Consolidated revenue for the quarter grew by 22% year-on-year to Rs 9,927 crore, led by higher sales as well as price increases.