“It’s been three days, there’s no food at home, my children are sleeping hungry every night, the house is full of water, and there’s no room to even start a fire to cook…Who would choose to live in such conditions? ” asked Pushpa Devi, who lives near the floodplains in Kashmere Gate, beneath the Old Railway Bridge.
 Devi is one among the approximately 40,000 residents who live on the Yamuna floodplains across the city who have been asked to vacate their homes due to rising river levels.
 The Yamuna at the Old Railway Bridge in Delhi was flowing above the ‘danger’ mark at 7 pm, reaching 205. 64 metres, according to data from the Central Water Commission (CWC). The danger’ level is 205. 33 metres, which the river breached at around 5 pm on Monday.
 The CWC forecast indicates that the water level is set to cross the 206-metre mark early on Tuesday morning. It is likely to hit 206. 65 metres at 3 am on Tuesday, going by the forecast. The level at which administration in Delhi begins evacuation is 206 metres. Delhi Revenue Minister Atishi inspected different areas of the Yamuna on a motorboat Monday. She also assessed the readiness for relief and rescue operations that might be required.
 Over 50 motorboats have been deployed for rescue and relief operations. Diving and medical teams have also been readied. The government said in a statement that a comprehensive evacuation plan had been prepared. The area, meanwhile, is flooded, with residents seen wading through knee-deep water. According to locals, on July 9 and 10, the Shahdara district police visited the Yamuna floodplains and alerted them.
 “After the water started rising above our bed on Sunday morning, sewage water overflowed and entered our farmland… the crop is also destroyed now,” Devi added. Most residents of the area are rickshaw pullers and farmers.
 “The police came twice on Sunday and announced that we must evacuate the area as soon as possible due to rising water levels, and when we asked where we should go, they told us to live under the flyover. There should be some facility, and then only the people will leave,” said Santosh Kumar, who lives near Mayur Vihar extension’s Pakodi Chowk at the Yamuna Bank.
 Many inhabitants at Kashmere Gate and Mayur Vihar extension claimed that they were unprepared to leave because no authority has contacted them yet.