The Web waits for no one. From speech recognition applications to the promise of XML to digital scratch 'n' sniff, the realities of the developing wired world may actually outstrip the hoopla.
Wired News surveyed the suits and geeks of Wired Digital, our parent company, to share their astute forecasts for the year ahead.
XML -- out of the soup?
"XML will become really important -- in terms of machines talking with one another, rather than content on the Web. It solves all the problems that used to get in the way. I've got a Word file and she's got a database, and he's got his logs from his server. We all wanted to trade this stuff, but nobody knew how. Everybody has to convert it into something else; now we can all just convert it into the same stuff."
"Hopefully, wide deployment of DSL and cable modems will increase the amount of rich-media content on the Web, spurring the development of content that was previously too bandwidth-intensive for many surfers.
"Technologies such as Macromedia's Flash and Shockwave Director will become increasingly more important to the average websurfer, and they will also become all but ubiquitous. Animations designed and built with these technologies will be more sophisticated and popular. 1999 might be the year we see a Web-based animator score a TV pilot."
"Natural language is going to become more and more evident in lots of products. You'll be able to ask a service a question in English and it will automatically go through the facts and send back answers via email. Coupled with natural-language processing, speech recognition is going to start making applications and services more user friendly."
Remember content?
"As the more well-heeled Web sites gobble up their smaller brethren in a cybersea of Jonah-hungry whales, look for fewer legit but vastly improved online hot spots. Consequently, we'll see editorial quality rise, returning to editors and copy editors that rosy glow of professional pride they've been seeking since leaving the print world several years ago.
"With such vast and lovely improvements permeating the Web, can DSnS (digital scratch 'n' sniff) be far behind?"
"More people and more potential hires will have more Web skills than ever. The interesting thing, however, will be that these people with more advanced technical skills will have to use less and less of those skills on the job. With the arrival of boxed Web-publishing systems, standardized markup languages like XML, and visual-database designing, the power of Web production will become more automated and less home-grown."
"We're not just talking build-your-own homepages anymore, but build-your-own multimedia e-commerce site. Building Web teams in 1999 is going to be less about retaining creative and technically skilled people and more about attracting traditional business talent."
"In 1999, I think you'll see more traditional media players becoming more heavily involved in the Web. We've already begun to see this in '98 with NBC gaining a significant minority stake in Snap and Disney's controlling interest in Infoseek.
"As the Internet market matures and Web-based entertainment becomes more immersive, I expect to see a continuation in the trend of traditional media giants moving into the Web through acquisition, merger, or distribution partnering."
"We will continue to see the migration away from traditional news sources such as network and local television news, as well as from newspapers. That is, unless the networks and the papers start to become more relevant by incorporating the Net into their news and entertainment programming.
"On the digital front, I expect to see the formation of loosely agreed-upon standards for presenting news on the Web, specifically in the creation of narrow, highly specific news partitions, similar to the newspapers' sections paradigm but much more narrow.
"I also look for news organizations to begin taking advantage of better bandwith as companies such as @Home and Roadrunner gain market share. This will include more development of multimedia, specifically video and sound.
"Finally, there will be continued interest in delivering news to the pocket, in the form of handheld devices and digital telephones.
"There's a future in the future."
"The only certain prediction for Internet law is that creative technology and business solutions will continue to outpace legal solutions for the issues facing the national and international Internet community. Creative solutions such as open-source licensing and filtering software will gain greater acceptance as responses to legal uncertainty.
"In 1999, American corporations will redouble lobbying efforts to limit federal regulation/taxation, yet encourage greater protection of their online investments. With the commerce pie growing larger in 1998, states will likely move to take a cut of the online action."
"Serious consolidation on the Web continues: CDnow/n2k, AOL/Netscape, Barnes & Noble/Bertelsmann are just the beginning. Companies that are small are banking on the trend, and even those companies in the top five are looking to be in the top three."
"In addition to swallowing an endless stream of overpriced start-ups, the portals (including Yahoo) will all merge with major media conglomerates by year's end. And don't be surprised if the Web companies are doing the acquiring, rather than vice versa (have you compared valuations lately?). Independents will find it harder and harder to compete.
"But don't lose hope: By year's end, we'll also see the beginnings of a network/studio model, which will allow small content players to thrive."
"In 1999, as the Web becomes more integrated into users' everyday lives, online commerce will explode. Web users who have found objectivity, comprehensiveness, and immediacy in their favorite search engines and portals will rely on these proven brands to bring them the utility of online commerce.
"Offline retailers will give it a try, but it will be much easier for an established Web brand to expand to commerce than it will for an offline retail brand to reinvent itself on the Web."
So long ad banner?
"Throughout '99, we'll see content and commerce become inextricably entwined. Merchandising will emerge as the new ad model, with catalog strips replacing ad banners on content sites, and media players doubling as retailers.
"Call it point-of-purchase publishing. Retail sites will partner with media players to round out their online offerings. The goal: create all-in-one infotainment centers, just like the other retail phenomena of the '90s: the superstore and mega mall."
"There will be much more research about what users really want from portals, rather than the blanket me-tooism that currently dominates the genre. As competition increases, portals will be forced to define themselves more clearly, leading to much more research into users' lifestyles, habits, and needs. By the millennium, only the lamest portals will look like each other."
"Whether the music industry likes it or not, the MP3 audio file format will only grow more popular, and largely due to the press the industry generated as they tried to litigate the Rio into oblivion. I think we will start to see consumer products that go beyond the Rio in terms of scope, such as car and home stereos.
"The SDMI initiative was a step in the right direction, but it was too little, too late, and the RIAA raised the bar for entry too high for all but the usual cast of characters to get into the game.
"I would like to think that 1999 is going to be the year that digital music delivery comes to the Web, but I'm not entirely convinced."
Losing the little guy?
"The things that are really going to impact Web design are going to have less to do with technology and more to do with business. Toward the end of 1999 you're going to see a lot fewer brands on the Web. You'll start seeing fewer and fewer places where you're going to get your information. Big brands are going to start to float to the surface and the little services are going to be packaged within those larger sites."
"The early results are in and seem to indicate that rich media -- Java, Flash, and others -- can significantly improve ad performance in terms of click rate and branding. Advertisers will respond to this in 1999 and you'll see much more elaborate ad banners as a result. Web publishers get ready!"
Rick Boyce, senior vice president, advertising and commerce, and "father of the ad banner."
Micropayments -- at last!
"As basic e-commerce matures and mainstreams, e-services will come on strong. Look for increasing sophistication in services, and greater integration between service providers. You'll also see miniaturization of services. At last, a use for those before-their-time micropayment systems."