India’s most reliable current cricketer across all formats, Virat Kohli is celebrating his 28th birthday. Since debuting in 2008, the talismanic batsman has grown in stature with every season to help his country march onwards at the international arena.
 Needless to say, wishes are pouring in from all quarters for the star batsman from Delhi. After taking over as India’s Test skipper, the right-hander has overseen a major resurgence in their fortunes by taking them to the number one spot in the ICC rankings.
 Let us relive the 28-year old’s memorable journey by looking at images of the ten most significant moments of his career so far.
 It had been eight years since India lifted the U-19 World Cup when Kohli’s team arrived in Malaysia for the 2008 edition. Also in the squad were the likes of Ravindra Jadeja and Manish Pandey who would go on to don the senior colors in the near future.
 The Indians remained unbeaten right throughout the tournament and marched into the final in style. Though they were bowled out for just 159, Kohli rallied his troops to snatch a narrow 12-run victory (D/L method) which gave them the title.
 An Indian team containing some of their greatest ever batsmen was thoroughly dismantled in Australia during the 2011/12 series. The second and third Tests saw the tourists plummet to embarrassing innings defeats.
 In the final Test at Adelaide, the Aussies won the toss and posted over 600 runs in the first innings. India were tottering at 87/4 when Kohli walked into the middle. Countering fire with fire, he responded to the dire straits by scoring his first Test century. Though the hosts wrapped up another comfortable victory, a star was unearthed.
 Kohli’s propensity to chase down totals without any fuss is becoming a stuff of legends. The journey started against Sri Lanka during a must-win match in the 2012 tri-series (also involving Australia) in Hobart.
 Facing a tall order of chasing 320 inside 40 overs to stay alive in the competition, Kohli paved the way for India by demolishing the Sri Lankan bowling unit and smashed an 86-ball 133 to make a mockery of the target.
 Having lost to Bangladesh in the previous match, India were taking on their arch-rivals in a crucial clash at the 2012 Asia Cup. Centuries from Nasir Jamshed and Mohammad Hafeez propelled Pakistan to 329 on a batting-friendly surface.
 The Indians got off to the worst possible start with opener Gautam Gambhir departing for a duck in the very second ball of the innings. However, Kohli allayed all fears and took control of the chase by stitching together vital partnerships en route to his sublime 148-ball 183.
 Prior to their Australian sojourn of 2014/15, India were still reeling from the scars of a dismal England tour with Kohli managing just 134 runs from 5 matches at a woeful average of 13. 40.
 With regular skipper MS Dhoni unavailable for the first Test at Adelaide, Kohli took over the captaincy. Showing remarkable mental toughness, he dazzled with twin centuries and more importantly displayed his attacking instincts by deciding to go after an improbable fourth-innings target. Even though India fell agonizingly short by 48 runs, his daring leadership received immense applause.
 The 3-Test series in Sri Lanka during the 2015 season was Kohli’s first major assignment after being appointed captain on a full-time basis. Despite reaching a dominant position in the opening match at Galle, the visitors let slip the advantage amidst a slew of umpiring errors.
 However, they had learnt their lesson and gave a complete account of themselves in the following two matches to win the series by a 2-1 margin. India had won a Test series on Sri Lankan soil after 22 years while Kohli also got his first Test and series victory as skipper.
 South Africa entered India with an enviable record of not losing even a single Test series away from home for nine years. Though conditions were expected to favor the home team, the Proteas possessed enough weapons in their armory to set up a close tussle.
 Amidst intense scrutiny surrounding those spin-friendly pitches, Kohli’s team destroyed South Africa 3-0 to end a 9-year streak and indicate their progress as a top-notch Test outfit.
 Almost five years since then, Tendulkar had ridden off into the sunset with Kohli taking over the mantle as India’s star batsman. As his idol watched proudly from the stands, he helped his team defeat Pakistan in front of a packed Eden Gardens crowd during the 2016 World T20 and demonstrated his affection for Sachin by bowing down in admiration.
 Even though he was beginning to forge a stellar Test career, Kohli’s lack of ‘daddy hundreds’ did not escape the attention of his critics. A four-Test series in the Caribbean provided an opportunity to rectify the aberration.
 The right-hander immediately responded with a 283-ball 200 in the first Test at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium at Antigua. The combination of clinical strike-rotation and effortless construction of innings signaled his eagerness to carve a reputation in the game’s traditional format.
 For any Test captain, leading your team to the number one spot in the ICC rankings and receiving the coveted mace remains the biggest dream. Even though India had reached the summit during November 2009 under MS Dhoni’s leadership, Kohli’s troops were desperate to claim top billing as well.
 After a thunderstorm and inadequate drainage facilities at Queen’s Park Oval had conspired to prevent them from reaching the top slot, Kohli’s team blanked New Zealand 3-0 to go on top of the world.