Dwayne Bravo added yet another trophy to his already glittering trophy cabinet by winning the Abu Dhabi T10 league. The West Indies allrounder plied his trade for Maratha Arabians, helping the side win the final against Deccan Gladiators at a buzzing Zayed Cricket Stadium on Sunday. He led from the front as the Arabians crushed the Shane Watson-led side by eight wickets.
Asked to bat first, the Gladiators only managed to score 87 for 8 in their allotted 10 overs. Dwayne Bravo’s decision to bowl first turned out to be a good one as the Arabians made a fine start, dismissing both the openers, Mohammed Shahzad and Shane Watson, within the first two overs. First, Mitchell McClenaghan had Watson caught for one before Shahzad chipped Lasith Malinga up to mid-wicket.
The Gladiators never recovered from those early setbacks and failed to post a big total. Asif Khan was the top-scorer for the Gladiators, scoring 25 from 17 balls. On the other hand, Bravo was the pick of the bowlers for Arabians, picking up 2 for just 16 off his two overs. Chadwick Walton then took centre stage during the chase as the Arabians chased down the total inside 8 overs by losing just two wickets.
The Jamaican wicketkeeper scored an unbeaten fifty to guide his team to the trophy-clinching win. He remained unbeaten on 51 off just 26 balls with the help of six fours and three sixes as Arabians crossed the finishing line with ease.
Dwayne Bravo shuts down troll:
Soon after lifting the trophy, Dwayne Bravo took to Instagram to announce that he has changed his name to from ‘Master Champion’ to ‘Mr Champion’. Well, the allrounder is certainly one of the most decorated players in the history of T20 and very few could point fingers at his record. However, one fan dared to do so and got a fitting reply from the star allrounder.
“Officially I’m now Mr Champion ? big big congratulations ? going out to my entire teammates and management staff on winning @t10league 2019! @marathaarabians we’re now Champs,” wrote the Chennai Super Kings star on Instagram.
But while most of the fans and others were congratulating Bravo, one of the fan took a dig at the player by saying that he is yet to win the World Cup.
“But MR CHAMPION has not won a WORLD CUP YET ?,” wrote the fan as he took a shot at Bravo’s international record.
However, the West Indies star was quick to remind his critic of his two T20 World Cups that he won in 2012 and 2016. Bravo played an important role in both the triumphs as he slammed the user, writing: