I am so glad you have chosen to participate in this study. When life gets difficult and we feel like we have nowhere else to turn, God’s Word has the ability to strengthen us and help us view our circumstances in an entirely new way.
If you’re struggling with depression or thoughts of suicide, I want you to know that God loves you. He sees what you’re going through, He is with you, and He desires to help you right where you are.
Psalm 34:18 (NLT) says, The Lord is close to the brokenhearted; he rescues those whose spirits are crushed. When we are hurting, God hurts with us.
He says, For I know the thoughts and plans that I have for you.thoughts and plans for welfare and peace and not for evil, to give you hope in your final outcome (Jeremiah 29:11 AMPC).
We all get hurt and go through hard times, and sometimes we find ourselves in desperate situations, wondering if we can keep going or make it through. But I want you to know that no matter how deep your pain is, or what you’ve been through, there is hope.
Perhaps you are reading this and you’ve been thinking about suicide. It’s not a coincidence that you have found this study! God wants you to know that He loves you, He understands your pain, and He has a plan to help you. No matter how deep of a pit you feel like you’re in, He can reach down and get you out.
Maybe you feel like nobody loves you or your situation will never change. You think it would be easer to give up than face more pain. If so, it’s important to understand that God thinks you are wonderful, and He has good things in store for your future, regardless of what has happened in the past or what you’re going through in this moment.
In fact, the greatest thing you can do is to speak these words out of your mouth as often as you can:
I know it may not come easy, but when you say what God says about you, it will strengthen you spiritually, mentally and emotionally. It will build your faith and give you hope!
Our enemy, Satan, wants to discourage us and make us feel like things will never get better.like there’s no way out. He wants us to believe that we’re all alone. I dealt with depression for years, and there’s a tendency to want to keep it hidden. It’s easy to isolate ourselves and feel like no one else can possibly understand.
The enemy likes it when we keep things hidden in the dark. However, God is Light, and when we discover what He has to say and shine His light into our situation, it brings freedom and hope!
I think it’s common for people to feel shame or embarrassment when it comes to depression or having thoughts of suicide. But the greatest thing we can do in these situations is tell someone else and get it out in the open.
If that’s where you are today, I encourage you to take a step of faith and immediately reach out to a trusted friend, a pastor or a trained Christian counselor. Don’t allow the enemy to keep it hidden, but take the opportunity to get things out into the light.
There may even be things going on in your body, like a physical or chemical imbalance, that is causing you to feel this way or making the situation worse. That’s why it can be so valuable to seek help from a medical professional. God is ultimately our Healer, but He will use doctors and other professionals to bring us healing!
It’s so important for you to know that you are not alone. We are here for you, we love you, and we want to help. The truth is, we all need to talk to someone at different times. We all go through things and need someone to help us get through our tough seasons in life.
If you are struggling with thoughts of suicide, I encourage you to reach out to us or one of these other helpful organizations.
At this moment, you may be facing what seems like an impossible situation. You may be struggling with feelings of sadness and depression and wonder if you’ll ever get past it. But I want you to know that God can bring change and make all things new. He can take your problem and turn it into something good. He can even work in your mind and emotions and help you to see things from a different perspective.
“I have loved you with an everlasting love; I have drawn you with unfailing kindness.” - Jeremiah 31:3 (NIV)
You keep track of all my sorrows. You have collected all my tears in your bottle. You have recorded each one in your book. - Psalm 56:8 (NLT)
I prayed to the Lord and he answered me. He freed me from all my fears. - Psalm 34:4 (NLT)
When you pass through the waters, I will be with you, and through the rivers, they will not overwhelm you. When you walk through the fire, you will not be burned or scorched, nor will the flame kindle upon you. - Isaiah 43:2 (AMPC)
…For He [God] Himself has said, I will not in any way fail you nor give you up nor leave you without support….[Assuredly not!] - Hebrews 13:5 (AMPC)
What time I am afraid, I will have confidence in and put my trust and reliance in You. - Psalm 56:3 (AMPC)
Come to Me, all you who labor and are heavy-laden and overburdened, and I will cause you to rest. [I will ease and relieve and refresh your souls.] - Matthew 11:28 (AMPC)
God is our refuge and strength, always ready to help in times of trouble. - Psalm 46:1 (NLT)
I can tell you from experience that God’s Word will change your life—the way you think, the way you feel, and even how you see your future. It will give you hope!
Wherever you find yourself today—regardless of what’s happened or how things may look right now—always remember that God is on your side and that you’re not alone in this struggle. God loves you more than you can ever know, and He is always with you. We love you, too, and we are here to help in any way we can.
Even when it seems there is no way, God can make a way. Because He’s the God of the impossible, and He’s the One who can make a miracle out of any situation (see Matthew 19:26).