4 candidates have filed nominations in Mariani, 5 in Thowra, 8 in Bhabanipur, 9 in Tamulpur and 13 candidates have filed nominations in the Gossaigaon constituency.
 GUWAHATI: Altogether 39 candidates filed their nominations for the upcoming bye-elections to the five Assembly constituencies of the State slated on October 30, an official of the Election Department informed here on Friday.
 The by-elections will be conducted in Mariani, Thowra, Bhabanipur, Tamulpur and Gossaigaon constituencies.
 Four candidates have filed nominations in Mariani, five in Thowra, eight in Bhabanipur, nine in Tamulpur and 13 candidates have filed nominations in the Gossaigaon constituency, the official said.
 Meanwhile, at least three independent candidates Harkeulias Basumatary, Chandi Basumatary and Deben Boro have reportedly withdrawn their candidature from the upcoming by-poll.
 While Harkeulias was contesting from the Gossaigaon seat, the other two were supposed to fight from the Tamulpur constituency.
 According to sources, they have withdrawn their nominations after United People's Party Liberal (UPPL), an ally in the state government, has requested them. Saturday was the last day to withdraw nominations.
 For the 28 Gossaigaon constituencies 13 candidates have filed their nominations. Today (16 October) is the last day of withdrawal of nomination. The main candidates are from UPPL, BPF, Congress, AIUDF and some regional organisations. The decisive fight will be between the main parties although independent and smaller parties will also play a major role here.
 "We will pick a candidate who will work for the people. The candidate has to be local and must understand our demands. We have many issues and hope that the winner will try to solve these," said a voter in Gossaigaon.
 "We will vote for the candidate who will develop our constituency. Better road connectivity is one of our major demands," said another voter.
 "The main fight in Gossaigaon will be between UPPL and BPF. There is no chance of Congress here," said another voter from Gossaigaon.
 In the 2021 Assam Legislative Assembly Election, Bodoland People's Front candidate Majendra Narzary won the seat polling 70,407 votes. His nearest rival of UPPL, Somnath Narzary received 60,064 votes.
 The four-time Gossaigaon MLA Majendra Narzary died due to post-COVID complications at GMCH in May 2021 resulting in a by-election.
 Earlier, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma took part in several public rallies in Mariani, Thowra and Bhabanipur constituencies during filing nominations by the BJP candidates.
 Also Watch: