A one-day consultative meeting on School Education was held at Niathu Resort, Chumoukedima on 22nd June 2022.
Addressing the gathering, Advisor School Education & SCERT, K.T. Sukhalu said Education is a very challenging Department and the responsibilities of each district and sub-division were not easy. Worrying about the data submitted by EBRC, DEOs, and SDEOs which does not tally, he said that the government needs concrete and real-time data about the students and the teachers so that policymakers give proper directions based on the ground reality.
He believes that the lifting of the NLTP Act can generate revenue that could be used for education and health care, "unless there is good infrastructure, giving smart TVs, computers and all digital equipment will result in getting things misplaced."
Expressing concern over officers who get too laid back in their duties, Sukhalu reminded them not to neglect their primary duty after working so hard to reach their positions. He emphasized the importance of human resource development stating that it is the most important resource.
Calling special attention to foundational literacy, he advised the officers to visit schools under them at least twice a month and the Directorate can also set up a cell where all reports can be submitted and analyzed on how and where interventions were needed to improve the performances.
Commissioner & Secretary School Education and SCERT, Kevileno Angami, while giving the keynote address, thanked the Advisor for his initiative of having such a consultative meeting where all officers at various levels can share their challenges and problems and also the good practices and success stories.
She said for Nagaland, human resource is the only resource and strength of the state when compared to other states and if not nurtured properly it can become a liability instead of an asset. She urged the gathering that as educationist school managers and administrators-they have a critical role to play and must always introspect and assess themselves whether they were contributing enough or not.
Short speeches were also given by Deputy Director, Nagaland Education Project-Lighthouse, Avelu Ruho about the World Bank Project; activities, roles, and responsibilities. Principal Director School Education, Thavaseelan K, IAS on School Education; activities, roles, and responsibilities. State Mission Director, Samagra Shiksha on activities, roles, and responsibilities.
The programme was chaired by Director School Education, Wonthungo Tsopoe.
(Watimenla IA Dimapur)