Uniform Civil Code: All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi has hit back at the remarks made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the Uniform Civil Code (UCC). Owaisi said that it seems that the PM has not understood the advice of former US President Barack Obama properly. Along with this, he has asked that if Pasmanda Muslims are being exploited in the country, then what are you doing?Owaisi, an MP from Hyderabad, said in a tweet, "Before asking for the votes of Pasmanda Muslims, your worker should go door-to-door and apologize because your spokesperson and MLA has insolent in the honor of Nabi-e-Karim." On one hand crocodile tears are being shed for Pasmanga Muslims and on the other hand mosques are being attacked.He said, the employment of Muslims is being snatched away, bulldozers are being run on the houses. Murder is happening through lynching and their reservation is also being opposed. Your government has also abolished the scholarship of poor Muslims.
'Triple Talaq law has no effect at the ground level'The AIMIM MP further said, you are citing the law of Pakistan and saying that there is a ban on triple talaq. Why are you getting so much inspiration from Pakistan's law? Triple Talaq law was brought in India, but there was no effect on the ground level. On the contrary, the exploitation of women increased further.If you have to make a law, then it should be made against those men who leave their wives after marriage and run away. Will you end the Hindu Undivided Family? Because of which the country is suffering a loss of more than 3000 crores every year.PM said – some people are protesting for vote bankActually, PM Modi had reached Bhopal today i.e. on Tuesday. Where, he mentioned the Uniform Civil Code while addressing the BJP booth workers. PM Modi said that triple talaq law has been abolished in most of the Muslim countries of the world. Our Pasmanda brothers and sisters have been used as a vote bank. Some people use Muslim brothers and sisters for their political gains.The PM further said, Supreme Court is saying to bring Uniform Civil Code, but some people are hungry for vote bank and are opposing it. A law has been said in the constitution of the country. In such a situation, will there be two rules in one house? Some people are provoking Muslim brothers and sisters. Let us inform that assembly elections are going to be held in Madhya Pradesh at the end of this year. In such a situation, the issue of Uniform Civil Code has once again come up for discussion.
लगता है मोदी जी ओबामा की नसीहत को ठीक से समझ नहीं पाए। मोदी जी ये बताइए कि क्या आप "हिन्दू अविभाजित परिवार" (HUF) को ख़त्म करेंगे? इसकी वजह से देश को हर साल ₹3064 करोड़ का नुक़सान हो रहा है।