The NBA is separated by two conferences - the Eastern Conference and the Western Conference. The perception is that the West is better than the East, and while that may be true of the last decade or so, a power shift is imminent, and the East is loading up. Over the last 25 years, the NBA has produced great talent in the East. Let's look back at those years and see which five NBA franchises have been the most dominant.
 Kevin Garnett, Ray Allen, Paul Pierce and rookie Rajan Rondo won the 2008 NBA title with little doubt they would. They were a hybrid of stifiling defense combined with clutch offensive play from everywhere on the floor. Doc Rivers' squad was one of those teams where it was obvious they'd win the title - they just had to do it. Though the Boston Celtics' big three won one title, they returned to the NBA Finals in 2010, and were a big reason LeBron James didn't have more NBA Finals appearances.
 The Cleveland Cavaliers went to four straight NBA Finals from 2015 to 2018, and won the NBA title in 2016. That year, the Cavaliers fought back from 3-1 - the first NBA team to do so - vs. the 73-9 Golden State Warriors. Kyrie Irving's injury in 2015 might have cost the Cleveland Cavaliers their first title. Yet winning in '16 seemed more appropriate given Steph Curry, Draymond Green, Andre Iguodala, Klay Thompson and the Golden State Warriors were the last true dynastic NBA team.
 Hall of Famer Ben Wallace, Chauncey Billups, Rip Hamilton, Rasheed Wallace and crew went to six straight Eastern Conference Finals from 2003-08. Coached by Larry Brown, Detroit was a mix of soulful toughness and galvanized unapologetic chemistry. With the lockdown defense of Tayshaun Prince and a bench that fit the personality of the starting five, if it wasn't for LeBron James and a certain fourth quarter, the Pistons might have won a second title in that dominant span.
 The Miami Heat went to four straight NBA Finals from 2011-14 and won two NBA titles. LeBron James, Chris Bosh and Dwyane Wade were better than almost every other team in the NBA except the Dallas Mavericks in 2011 and the San Antonio Spurs in 2013. I guess they'd better stay out of Texas? The most scrutinized team in NBA history will be seen as the starting point for player empowerment as players look to have more of a choice of where to play in their careers.
 What else can we say about Michael Jordan, Scottie Pippen and Dennis Rodman that hasn't already been said? Phil Jackson's bunch were a prototypical team of sheer talent, gifted will and clutch precision. Their second three-peat is why they top this list. Gary Payton, Shawn Kemp, John Stockton and Karl Malone were all prohibited from being deservedly NBA titles decorated because the Chicago Bulls and Michael Jordan were just too good. With all the turmoil within what was shown in The Last Dance documentary, the fact that this team was able to eek out that last ring in 1998 is remarkable.