The ODI at Port Elizabeth would be remembered for a long time as India created history by clinching their first ever ODI series in South Africa. After posting a total of 274, powered by Rohit Sharma’s knock, India bowled out visitors for the third time in the series. India wins the 5th ODI by a margin of 73 runs.
A lot had been talked about Rohit Sharma off-late. The Indian opener shut down his critic by resurrecting his torrid South African tour with a dazzling century.
Sharma scored 115 off just 124, smashing 11 boundaries and 4 sixes, thereby, giving India a chance to post a total around 300. Even though he was involved in a couple of major runouts which affected India’s total, Hitman kept his cool and piled on the runs for his team.
Shikhar Dhawan looked at his majestic best in his run-a-ball 32, which consisted of four glorious boundaries and a scintillating maximum. He gave India a flying start on a tricky pitch up front and gave a firm challenge to the line and lengths of South African pacers.
The southpaw was unfortunate to give his wicket away while handing a catch in the deep at square-leg, just when he was looking to repeat his Jo’burg heroics.
After India lost Dhawan, Rohit and Kohli took the game further away from South Africa with their partnership of 105 runs. The two batsmen were at ease, milking the spinners and toying with the pacers until the unfortunate run-out. Kohli was all set for another major contribution in the series. Due to his zeal for taking a quick run, Kohli had to remain contented with only 36.
After the shocking run out of Kohli, Rohit had to deal with another similar dismissal. After consuming a number of dots, the pressure was mounting on Rahane.
He chose to pick a quick single off Morkel and sprinted towards the other end, without noticing Rohit’s call. In the end, he gave his wicket adding just eight. Also, he dropped a catch off Miller when he took the field. Rahane gets a three for his outing at St. George’s Park.
Shreyas Iyer looked comfortable at the crease while batting with centurion Rohit Sharma. The two Indians intended to repeat their heroics at Mohali versus Sri Lanka last year.
Unfortunately, it became difficult for the young Mumbai batsman when his partner was dismissed. The pressure of acceleration at the death cost him his wicket when he was on 30. To make matters worse, he even dropped a simple catch to give a life to Markram.
Hardik Pandya- 8/10:
Masses back home lashed out at Hardik Pandya post his golden duck today due to his form with the bat off-late. However, he came back strongly to justify his place as an allrounder in the side. He picked up the crucial wickets of AB de Villiers and JP Duminy which reduced South Africans from 52/0 to 65/3.
Just when Hashim Amla was threatening to take his team home, Pandya scored a direct hit to see the back of the batsman. The icing on the cake was the one-handed catch in the deep while avoiding collision with Dhawan to dismiss Shamsi. In the end, it was a good day for Pandya at Port Elizabeth after the nightmarish start.
Coming low down the order, for the nth time in his career, the onus was MSD to achieve the final flourish for his country. His knock at Jo’burg would have given additional hope for the Indian fans. However, it was not to be as he was dismissed by a blinder of a catch from Markram at mid-off. MS Dhoni, as usual, was lightning behind the stumps and gave valuable inputs behind the stumps.
Hardik Pandya may be the designated all-rounder but it has been Bhuvneshwar Kumar’s contributions with both bat and ball which has stood out throughout the last season and a half.
Yet again, when the chips were down at the back end of the innings, Bhuvi added the final touch with his 20-ball 19. His knock took India to an above par score of 274. Bhuvi would not remember the series for his wicket-taking spells but also remained expensive today in his seven overs.
Kuldeep Yadav – 8.5/10:
Kuldeep Yadav again had a field day at the office after clinching the wickets of Phelukwayo, Klaasen and the rest of the tail. Kuldeep with his four-wicket haul surpasses Chahal for the most number of wickets in the series momentarily. Just when the Indians smelled blood with the wicket of Amla, Kuldeep unleashed his best and wrapped it for his captain.
Yuzvendra Chahal – 8/10:
Chahal, after an expensive start, pulled it back for himself with a couple of wickets. The wrist-spinning duo of Chahal and Kuldeep who caused the damage sharing six wickets in between them. He also extracted his vengeance by dismissing David Miller again by bamboozling him with his flight.
Jasprit Bumrah – 7/10:
Throughout the series, Jasprit Bumrah has delivered with the new ball every time. Just when Aiden Markram was looking to flex his muscles with a run-a-ball 32 behind him, Bumrah provided the breakthrough upfront, thereby exposing Duminy and AB de Villiers early on.
Also Read: