The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has expressed shock over the "blatant lie of WHO certification" for Patanjali's Coronil tablet, which the company claims is an evidence-based medicine to fight COVID-19.
 The IMA has demanded an explanation from Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan in whose presence the medicine was launched.
 This comes in the wake of the global health body, WHO, clarifying that it has not reviewed or certified the effectiveness of any traditional medicine for the treatment of COVID-19.
 Yoga guru Ramdev's Patanjali Ayurved had on February 19 said that the Coronil tablet had received certification from the Ayush Ministry as a medicine supporting COVID-19 treatment as per the World Health Organization's certification scheme.
 However, Patanjali's managing director Acharya Balkrishna later made a clarification about the certification through a tweet saying, "We want to clarify to avoid confusion that our WHO GMP compliant COPP certificate to Coronil is issued by DCGI, Government of India. It is clear that WHO does not approve or disapprove of any drugs. WHO works for building a better, healthier future for people all over the world (sic). "
In a statement issued on Monday, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said, “Being Health Minister of the country, how justified is it to release such falsely fabricated unscientific product to people of the whole country. . . can you clarify the time frame, timeline for the so-called clinical trial of this said anti-corona product? "
"The country needs an explanation from the minister. The Indian Medical Association will also write to the National Medical Commission seeking suo moto explanation for his blatant disrespect to the code of conduct of Medical Council of India,” the IMA said.
 "Indian Medical Association is shocked to note the blatant lie of WHO certification. . . ," it said.
 Haridwar-based Patanjali Ayurved had also released what it claimed was research work supporting Coronil's efficacy in COVID-19 treatment.