Posted On:
CSIR-National Institute of Science Communication and Policy Research (NIScPR) organised a "Student-Science Connect Programme" in New Delhi on 13 September 2023 as part of its One Week One Lab programme. The event was attended by more than 150 students from Kendriya Vidyalaya Vikaspuri, Kendriya Vidyalaya Dwaraka and MM Public School. Shri C. B. Singh, Head, Jigyasa training and HR Division, CSIR-NIScPR, gave an overview of the programme. Professor Ranjana Aggarwal, Director, CSIR-NIScPR, extended a warm greeting to the participants and presented her introductory remarks for the occasion. Prof Aggarwal emphasised on the relevance of the two thematic areas selected for the programme, namely millets and scientifically validated Indian traditional knowledge.
The programme was also graced by Dr. Shekhar C. Mande, the former Director General, CSIR, and Dr. Sanjay Kumar, Chairman, ASRB, New Delhi. Dr. Mande highlighted the efforts undertaken by CSIR-NIScPR in the preservation and revitalization of diminishing Indian Traditional Knowledge. He emphasised the significance of the NIScPR publication "Wealth of India". Dr. Sanjay Kumar emphasised on the significance of learning by fun, team work, and the need of establishing meaningful connections with extended family. Professor Sharmistha Banarjee, University of Hyderabad delivered the keynote address during the event. Professor Banarjee talked about India's contributions to the fields of Science and Technology, illustrating this with notable instances such as Chandrayan-3, development of Covid-19 vaccines, 3D organ printing technology, among other topics. The annual report for NIScPR Jigyasa, covering the period of 2022-2023, was also unveiled at the ceremony.
During the occasion, Dr. Suman Ray, Principal Scientist, CSIR-NIScPR sensitized the students about nutritional importance of millets encompassing their nutritional profiles and traditional recipes. Dr. Charu Lata, Principal Scientist & PI-SVASTIK at CSIR-NIScPR delivered a talk on "Communicating Scientifically Validated Traditional Knowledge to the society (SVASTIK)", emphasising the significance of protection and perpetuation of Indian traditional knowledge. Dr Lata also highlighted the work done by CSIR-NIScPR under the national initiative SVASTIK in the documentation and communication of scientifically validated traditional knowledge to the society. Dr. Paramananda Barman, Scientist at CSIR-NIScPR, conducted an entertaining quiz competition on traditional knowledge. The quiz was succeeded by a puppet show centered upon the theme of science communication. The event was concluded with a visit to the Raw Materials Herbarium & Museum and AyurVatika at CSIR-NIScPR.