relevance to this question. We may deal with each other on any question or not according to circumstances.
Shri Jalpal Singh: May I know why the hon. Member from Jubbulpore who did go to New Zealand, did not remain there?
Mr. Speaker: Next question.
श्री भक्त दर्शन : अभी हाल में न्यूजीलैंड के प्रधान मंत्री भारत भाए थे । क्या उनके साथ वहां रहने वाले भारतीयों की समस्याओं के सम्बन्ध में परामर्श हुआ और क्या उन्होंने आश्वासन दिया है कि उनकी हालत दुरुस्त की जायगी ?
sît aungcenter age facer and ant प्राश्वासन ?
श्री भक्त वर्शन : क्या उन्होंने न्यूजीलैंड ⇒ qyà anà unectat aît feafer à gare करने के सम्बन्ध में कोई प्राशा दिलाई है ?
भी जवाहरलाल नेहरू : भारतीयों की स्थिति वहां बहुत अच्छी है । श्राश्वासन किस बात का दिलायें वह ?
Mr. Speaker: He has already said that they are maintaining high standards.
Industrial Training in Delhi
Shrimati Ila Palchoudhuri: Shri S. M. Banerjee: Shri Tangamani:
{ Shri Prabhat Kar:
Will the Minister of Labour and Employment be pleased to state:
(a) whether it is a fact that scheme for enlarging the scope for industrial training in Delhi has been finalised by the Government of India; and
(b) if so, the details thereof?
The Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Labour and Employment and Planning (Shri L. N. Mishra): (a) Yes,
(b) Under the scheme for the expansion of facilities for industrial training under the Second Five Year Plan, sanction has been issued for an additional 192 seats at the Industrial Training Institute, Pusa, New Delhi. Proposal for twentyfour more seats to be provided in Delhi is being awaited from the Delhi Administration.
In addition, sanction has also been accorded for the introduction of 100 seats for the training of Industrial Workers in Evening Classes in Delhi.
Shrimati la Palchoudhuri: When will the work of re-organising the six work-cum-training centres taken over from the Rehabilitation Ministry, be completed?
Shri L. N. Mishra: We have recently taken them over from the Rehabilitation Ministry.
Mr. Speaker: The Questions are all over.
There are five minutes more. Members who are absent: I will call them again. Shri Nardeo Snatak, Shri Tangamani, Shri Ajit Singh Sarhadi, Shri T. B. Vittal Rao, Shri Halder, Shri Nagi Reddy, Shri N. R. Munisamy, Shri S. M. Banerjec.
Shri Panigrahi: Can we have an answer, Sir?
Mr. Speaker: No. Hon. Members are not present. It becomes a premium on their absence.
Shri Ranga: 1534, Sir.
Mr. Speaker: No.
Shri N. G. Goray roseMr. Speaker: I won't allow any question which stands in the name of any other hon. Member because, whether they are present or absent here, they get an opportunity to have their question answered on the floor of the House. They have not cared to authorise another Member to put the question on their behalf. I have given this indulgence too aften. Hereafter I won't give it. Now, the