Mumbai: Confused about your portfolio? Which stock should you buy or sell now? Ask ET NOW & get all your stock-specific queries answered LIVE by top market experts on Buy Now Sell Now. You can post your queries live on YouTube. And now we have also come live on WhatsApp - you can text your queries to us on [PHONE].
 We spoke to two of our seasoned market experts, Kunal Bothra and Gaurang Shah who once again answered all your queries on what to buy and how to buy.
 Q. R Bharath Kumar from Chennai: I hold 250 shares of Federal Bank acquired at Rs. 115 per share. Can I hold it or replace it with something which you suggest?
 Gaurang Shah: We have a 'buy' coverage on Federal Bank. My advice would be not to do any changes. The only thing you need to do is hack to the stock at current levels given the higher levels of the acquisition price that you bought earlier. We believe that starting the second quarter onwards, in case the third wave does not happen to be a spoilsport, we belive that banking sector will be the one that will take the lead to take us to the level on the higher side as far as the Sensex and Nifty is concerned. So hold on to where the stock is currently trading at.
 Q. Kaustubh: Technically what target do you foresee for Kotak Bank in upcoming sessions? It is doing well after some consolidation.
 Kunal Bothra says: Kotak Mahindra has been in my recommendation for quite some time now. We picked up the stock closer to the support levels. When the entire banking phase is going through a recovery phase and Kotak Mahindra was apparently underperforming. So there was a catch up that was supposed to be playing - and now that has played out. Now what I think should be in line for the stock over the near term should be near 1950-2000 levels as the target range for the stock. And the 200-day moving average which was the breakout point around 1805-1810 levels right now, I think that should act as the moderate support for the stock. I believe the breakout which had happened for Kotak Mahindra Bank should be your stop loss.
 Q. Sarvani from Hyderabad: I want to invest in LT FOODS for the Medium-term. Can you suggest if this is a good stock? If not please suggest a stock that can give 20% returns in the medium term.
 Gaurang Shah says: It is very difficult to say that in terms of returns and unfortunately we do not have coverage on LT Foods but I do have an alternative investment idea. I can share an alternative investment idea provided she extends her time horizon to a longer one because 20% in the medium term is not realistic. My advice would be to get into IT. Other than the large-cap names if I have to suggest a midcap name, then he can go for Mindtree which looks extremely strong. And I was thinking of one more alternative idea - we believe that Private sector banks underperformance is a great opportunity to nibble at the private sector banks. So you can either pick up HDFC Bank, Axis Bank or ICICI Bank.
 Q. Vikram: Trident or Welspun India?
 Please help with the following:
B) Projected Growth in share price in 1-5 yrs (in % or absolute numbers, if possible)
Gaurang Shah says: Amid these two, I will give an alternative investment idea on which we are extremely positive. Forget about Trident and Welspun but definitely look at Raymond or Century Textile. These are more established players.
 Q. Sagar: Need a technical view on Greenpanel. I am holding 100 shares since it separated from Greenply. Should I book profit or wait? Looking for a mid-long period.
 Kunal Bothra says: I don't track the chart that often but I had a quick look at the charts. I believe that in the last month from the August lows of 225, the stock has done reasonably well. Looking at the stock from the last 1. 5 years as well, it has reasonably well for itself. It's a stock that is going through a reasonable price uptrend. Even on the short term charts, I think it's confirmed a breakout above the 275 levels, so it's almost a 4-month consolidation breakout for Greenpanel. 250 could approximately be a target range for Greenpanel over the near term.