NEW DELHI: The preparations for Shah Rukh Khan King-sized birthday party have been set in motion. Shah Rukh’s family and friends were spotted leaving for their Alibaug property for a quiet but fabulous birthday celebration away from the city hustle-bustle. Suhana took off with Sussanne Khan and Anu Dewan from the Gateway of India, Mumbai.
Before Suhana, her mother Gauri Khan left for Alibaug with Shweta Bachchan Nanda and designer Vikram Phadnis. Gauri was spotted in checked culottes and matching top with her family members. Shweta Bachchan Nanda was also spotted in striped tee with white pants. Bhavana Pandey and Maheep Kapoor along with their daughters Ananya and Shanaya were also there. We also spotted Seema Khan at the dock.
Actors Alia Bhatt, Anushka Sharma are also reportedly in the Khan’s guests list but they will apparently be choppered to the venue.
Earlier this month, Shah Rukh and Gauri took a small party to Alibaug for the celebration of the 26th wedding anniversary. At that time, Suhana and her friends Shanaya Kapoor (Sanjay and Maheep Kapoor’s daughter) and Ananya Pandey (Chunky and Bhavana Pandey’s daughter) dominated the scene.
The superstar blew out 52 candles on his birthday cake at midnight yesterday but ahead of that it was party time with friends! You say the word ‘party’ and Karan Johar is there… so are Deepika Padukone, Alia Bhatt, Katrina Kaif, the Arora sisters – Malaika and Amrita, Sidharth Malhotra, Riteish Sidhwani and Farah Khan, all of who feature in jealous-worthy snippets from the guests’ Alibaug diaries. “Eve of the birthday!” Karan wrote for the photos on Instagram. Gauri Khan, Suhana and AbRam have also checked in already and are having a blast too – we know this because the little one was already photobombing Katrina and Alia’s pictures.
Other guests at Shah Rukh’s birthday bash included guests like Shweta Nanda Bachchan and Sussanne Khan while Bhavana Pandey and Maheep Kapoor joined with their daughters Ananya and Shanaya.
During the party, Shah Rukh also stepped out of his Alibaug residence to meet and greet the line of waiting paparazzi. This is how the celebs were unwinding ahead of the big party.
International online casino Casino Days has published a report sharing their internal data on what types and brands of devices are used to play on the platform by users from the South Asian region.
Such aggregate data analyses allow the operator to optimise their website for the brands and models of devices people are actually using.
The insights gained through the research also help Casino Days tailor their services based on the better understanding of their clients and their needs.
The primary data samples analysed by Casino Days reveal that mobile connections dominate the market in South Asia and are responsible for a whopping 96.6% of gaming sessions, while computers and tablets have negligible shares of 2.9% and 0.5% respectively.
The authors of the study point out that historically, playing online casino was exclusively done on computers, and attribute thе major shift to mobile that has unfolded over time to the wide spread of cheaper smartphones and mobile data plans in South Asia.
“Some of the reasons behind this massive difference in device type are affordability, technical advantages, as well as cheaper and more obtainable internet plans for mobiles than those for computers,” the researchers comment.
Chinese brands Xiaomi and Vivo were used by 21.9% and 20.79% of Casino Days players from South Asia respectively, and together with the positioned in third place with a 18.1% share South Korean brand Samsung dominate the market among real money gamers in the region.
Cupertino, California-based Apple is way down in seventh with a user share of just 2.29%, overshadowed by Chinese brands Realme (11.43%), OPPO (11.23%), and OnePlus (4.07%).
Huawei is at the very bottom of the chart with a tiny share just below the single percent mark, trailing behind mobile devices by Motorola, Google, and Infinix.
The data on actual phone usage provided by Casino Days, even though limited to the gaming parts of the population of South Asia, paints a different picture from global statistics on smartphone shipments by vendors.
Apple and Samsung have been sharing the worldwide lead for over a decade, while current regional leader Xiaomi secured their third position globally just a couple of years ago.
The shifted market share patterns of the world’s top smartphone brands in South Asia observed by the Casino Days research paper reveal a striking dominance of Android devices at the expense of iOS-powered phones.
On the global level, Android enjoys a comfortable lead with a sizable 68.79% share which grows to nearly 79% when we look at the whole continent of Asia. The data on South Asian real money gaming communities suggests that Android’s dominance grows even higher and is north of the 90% mark.
Among the major factors behind these figures, the authors of the study point to the relative affordability of and greater availability of Android devices in the region, especially when manufactured locally in countries like India and Vietnam.
“And, with influencers and tech reviews putting emphasis on Android devices, the choice of mobile phone brand and OS becomes easy; Android has a much wider range of products and caters to the Asian online casino market in ways that Apple can’t due to technical limitations,” the researchers add.
The far better integration achieved by Google Pay compared to its counterpart Apple Pay has also played a crucial role in shaping the existing smartphone market trends.