The 15th day of the first month of the Chinese calendar, during the full moon, is when the Lantern Festival, also referred to as the Floating Lanterns Festival or Shangyuan Festival, is observed. According to the Gregorian calendar, the particular celebration often takes place in early February or March. The traditional Chinese New Year celebration comes to an end on this day. The Chinese Lantern Festival will be observed on February 5, 2023.
Another theory of the festival's beginning dates back to the Han era, when Ti Yin, the deity of the North Star, was said to be involved. The Han dynasty's Emperor Wu paid particular attention to this day. He declared it to be one of the most significant festivals in 104 BC and that the ritual would go all night.
History:More than 2,000 years ago, the Lantern Festival's beginnings may be found. The festival's origins may be traced to the Han dynasty's reign of Emperor Ming, which coincided with the expansion of Buddhism in China. Emperor Ming, a supporter of Buddhism, saw that Buddhist monks would burn lanterns in temples on the fifteenth day of the first lunar month. He then issued an edict for the entire country to do the same that evening. This became a common practise.
Another theory of the festival's beginning dates back to the Han era, when Ti Yin, the deity of the North Star, was said to be involved. The Han dynasty's Emperor Wu paid particular attention to this day. He declared it to be one of the most significant festivals in 104 BC and that the ritual would go all night.
Importance:China celebrates the Lantern Festival, a significant holiday that unites friends and family for a joyous occasion. Children hold paper lanterns during the Lantern Festival and answer riddles on the lanterns as they walk about at night. The lighting of the lanterns might represent individuals letting go of the past year and its events and starting over with optimism and hope. The lanterns are often crimson to denote wealth.
- Where is the Lantern Festival celebrated?
- Where is the biggest Lantern Festival?
Disclaimer Statement: This content is authored by an external agency. The views expressed here are that of the respective authors/ entities and do not represent the views of Economic Times (ET). ET does not guarantee, vouch for or endorse any of its contents nor is responsible for them in any manner whatsoever. Please take all steps necessary to ascertain that any information and content provided is correct, updated, and verified. ET hereby disclaims any and all warranties, express or implied, relating to the report and any content therein.
(Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)
Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates.