Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa on Tuesday said she had sought 1,000 MW power for the State as a temporary allocation from June to May 2012 from the Centre to tide over the power crisis.
 On frequent power cuts in Tamil Nadu, she said the power deficit in the State was due to corruption, bad administration and misgovernance in the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board during the DMK regime. She said the TNEB imported a low calorific value coal from Indonesia at an exorbitant cost. She pointed out that during her earlier tenure, from 2001 to 2006, Tamil Nadu was a power-surplus State.
 Asked to spell out her stand on the Sethusamudram project, Ms. Jayalalithaa said her party had never supported it and would not want the project to be completed.
 On Kerala's stand for construction of a new Mullaperiyar dam, she said that after the Supreme Court order which said the level of the water in the dam could be increased [from 136 ft to 142 ft] and there was no threat to its safety, Kerala's decision for a new dam was illegal and it was aimed at depriving the people of Tamil Nadu of their “rightful share” of waters. “We will fight it legally,” she said.
 On her decision to function from Fort St. George instead of the new Secretariat built by her predecessor M. Karunanidhi, she said the project cost went up from Rs. 200 crore to Rs. 1,200 crore.
 “Despite this, the building has still not been completed. Only the Chief Minister's office and seven departments will be housed at the new building. Other departments would continue to function from the old one. No sensible and responsible government would think of constructing only for the Chief Minister's office and some departments. Can a responsible, efficient government function in this way? So, I have ordered all the departments to be shifted to the old building,” Ms. Jayalalithaa said.
 Asked for the reasons for the defeat of the DMK in the polls, she said besides the extravagant style of functioning, “there was all-pervasive corruption, nepotism, lack of governance and dominance of one family in every business. ”.
 ‘Silent revolution'
In a memorandum, the State wanted the Centre to suspend the Thoothukudi-Colombo ferry service saying her government was not consulted on the move. It said the ferry service which remained suspended from 1983 had been resumed at a most inopportune time.