Bangladesh crashed to their eighth innings defeat in their last 10 Test matches, losing before lunch on the third day to Sri Lanka by an innings and 96 runs. Muttiah Muralitharan was the chief destroyer, creating middle order mayhem with his doosra, to finish with 6 for 18 and the Man-of-the-Match award.
Bangladesh started the day with their backs to the wall after Muralitharan's double-strike the previous evening, but they would have banked on offering sterner resistance. Unfortunately, it turned into a procession after Chaminda Vaas found the outside edge of Habibul Bashar's bat early.
Bangladesh were bowled out for just 86 in 27.4 overs, their lowest total in Test cricket. Ultimately, they paid the price for failing to capitalise on a good start on day one. If 153 for 2 had been converted into a 300 plus total then Sri Lanka would have faced some pressure on a turning track.
But left trailing by 182 runs after the first innings, defeat was inevitable. Their batsmen had played Muralitharan well in the one-day series, but with men surrounding the bat and the added pressure of the five-day game, Muralitharan proved too sharp an operator.
Tushar Imran (3) could count himself unlucky as a big offbreak hurried along the ground to hit the base of his off stump. But the others were more culpable. Aftab Ahmed failed to pick the doosra and was caught at slip. Mohammad Rafique top-edged a sweep and was caught at slip.
Lasith Malinga chipped in, bowling Khaled Mashud (15), the lone resistance, with his trademark toecrusher, a skill learnt and perfected while playing softball cricket in Hikkaduwa's coconut groves. He also accounted for Syed Rasel who was bowled, trying to run a length ball to third man. Malinga finished with 3 for 32 from six overs.
Muralitharan wrapped up the game, a full hour before lunch, when Enamul Haque Jnr, wandered aimlessly down the pitch and was stumped, the fourth player in the innings to be beaten by Muralitharan's doosra.
Habibul Bashar c Sangakkara b Vaas 15 (39 for 4)
Tushar Imran b Muralitharan 3 (47 for 5)
Aftab Ahmed c Samaraweera b Muralitharan 8 (50 for 6)
Mohammad Rafique c Samaraweera b Muralitharan 4 (59 for 7)
Syed Rasel b Malinga 1 (73 for 8)
Khaled Mashud b Malinga 15 (83 for 9)
Enamul Haque Jnr st Sangakkara b Muralitharan 2 (86 for 10)