The breach in the IPL 2021 bio-bubble leading to several players testing COVID-19 positive forced the BCCI to indefinitely suspend the remainder of the tournament.
 New Delhi- After four players participating in the IPL 2021 tested positive by Tuesday, the BCCI and the IPL governing body decided to call off the remainder of the tournament indefinitely in an attempt to ensure the safety of the players, support staff, and the other participants involved in the tournament.
 Unlike last year's 2020 IPL held in UAE where the bio-bubble was in the expert hands of Restrata, a professional company well versed in tracking devices and bio-secure solutions, the IPL this year was primarily managed by hospital vendors and testing labs who were not very well versed with the entire safety procedure.
 One of the main safety concerns was that of Air Travel as IPL 2021 was scheduled to be held across six cities. Two players and one team coach most likely contracted the deadly infectious virus while traveling through an airport terminal as the state government rejected the teams' requests for tarmac access. In the UAE, there was no air travel.
 The tracking device purchased from a Chennai-based company proved to be faulty at times. The ground and hotel staff, catering staff, net bowlers, DJs, and drivers who were outside the bio-bubble but came in contact with players and management might not have followed quarantine protocols or have been adequately tested.
 The indefinite suspension of the remainder of the IPL tournament has resulted in the loss of about Rs 2000 crore for BCCI and its franchise.
 Another point of error was that instead of appointing a central agency to ensure the safety of the bio-bubble, the BCCI entrusted each franchise to create its own bubble for players, members, and staff.
 Food delivery from outside the bio-bubble was also allowed until last week.
 As the medical experts reckon that India will be in the grasp of the third wave of COVID-19 pandemic by September, BCCI is reportedly planning to shift the tournament to UAE like last year where the remainder of the tournament will be played.