During the visit of US Vice President Kamala Harris to Vietnam from August 24-26, one witnessed an unusually combative attitude of the Chinese crossing all barriers of diplomatic courtesies and civilised behaviour.
 NEW DELHI: During the visit of US Vice President Kamala Harris to Vietnam from August 24-26, one witnessed an unusually combative attitude of the Chinese crossing all barriers of diplomatic courtesies and civilised behaviour.
 In an effort to desperately counter American engagement in this region and specially in Vietnam, the Chinese resorted to a crude diplomatic manoeuvre by beating the Americans in delivering COVID-19 vaccines in the Southeast Asian nation. While the US pledged delivery of one million doses of COVID-19 vaccine to Vietnam, the Chinese Ambassador Xiong Bo met Vietnamese Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh on the day of Harris' arrival and delivered two million Sinovac doses with the aim to undercut the planned American announcement of one million COVID jabs.
 Such mean and child-like behaviour of the Chinese have indeed exposed the level of desperation in them to prove that they are ahead of the others while engaging countries in the region. The development placed Vietnam in an awkward situation with Prime Minister Chinh mentioning that Vietnam does not allow one country to fight with another. The childish approach led to severe criticism of the Chinese by the Vietnamese public at large.
 The Chinese did not stop at this as the Chinese Embassy in Vietnam reacted on August 27 sharply to the remarks made by the US Vice President on the South China Sea (SCS), wherein she criticised Beijing for its "coercive bullying" actions in the region. Harris also mentioned, as per the prevailing US stand on SCS, that American Navy could continue its presence in the region and challenge China's excessive maritime claims. The Chinese Embassy reacted by reiterating the Chinese government's position on the matter and ended up creating a mess. The Embassy tried to malign Washington's image by criticising American actions during the US-Vietnam War and blaming it for the recent political turmoil in Afghanistan. Some of the historical facts mentioned by the Embassy on social media on Chinese rights over SCS led to a large scale attack by the Vietnamese public. In their eagerness to portray China's position on SCS with the aim of countering the Americans, the Embassy lost track of the fact that in doing so they stepped on Vietnamese sentiments. (IANS)
Also Watch: