This particular exoplanet, an ultrahot celestial body, swiftly orbits its parent star every 19 hours, making it the shiniest exoplanet ever found.
An exoplanet the size of Earth has been found by astronomers, and it is covered in volcanoes.
In a groundbreaking discovery, astronomers have detected water vapour in the vicinity of GJ 486 b, a rocky alien world, using the Near-Infrared Spectrograph (NIRSpec) instrument on JWST.
Astronomers have used artificial intelligence to identify a new planet in a groundbreaking discovery.
NASA's James Webb Space Telescope has recently discovered new information about the faraway exoplanet HD149026b, also known as Smertrios.
A rocky world orbiting ‘TRAPPIST-1’ was discovered to have no atmosphere, according to new observations.
The revolutionary observatory has just glimpsed straight into the atmosphere of a massive exoplanet with two suns known as VHS 1256 b"
For the first time, the largest, most powerful space observatory ever built has confirmed the 'presence' off an exoplanet.
NASA has discovered the first extraterrestrial world of 2023, which is confounding scientists.
'TRAPPIST-1e' will assist scientists in determining whether any planets outside the solar system may support life.
The search for nitrous oxide, also called as laughing gas, as a potential sign of life on other planets has been presented by a group of astrobiologists.
Scientists discovered a new class of exoplanet, which has sparked interest in the scientific community.
James Webb Space Telescope has uncovered a fascinating alien world blanketed in swarms of silicate grains that reflect sand.
James Webb Space Telescope, has discovered carbon dioxide for the first time in an exoplanet planet's atmosphere.
A gaseous newborn world may have been discovered by scientists. According to the team which made the finding, a young exoplanet with a mass similar to Jupiter.
A new Super Earth, 37 light years away and four times as massive as our own, has been discovered by NASA.
The James Webb Telescope's first mission is to monitor 55 Cancri e, a super-hot, super-Earth that orbits the Sun in only 18 hours, and the airless planet LHS 3844 b.
In a new research, a group of scientists explored the atmospheres of 25 so-called hot Jupiters, which seem to be exoplanets roughly the size of Jupiter.
China is currently searching for a planet with Earth-like environments. Beijing is looking for a different home planet for beings that has life-supporting conditions.
Using the new technology, astronomers were able to significantly extend Kepler's reach.
The research not only helped discover a new phase of ice, but it also showed that the transition to Ice-X occurred at pressures nearly three times lower than previously thought at 300,000 atmospheres instead of 1 million.
The exoplanet is located in the spiral galaxy Messier 51, some 28 million light-years away.
New research suggests an exoplanet in the GW Ori star system might be orbiting three stars at once.
NASA just shared the most magical picture of an exoplanet on its official Hubble telescope Instagram page. The exoplanet is called PDS 70b and it can be seen feeding off of material surrounding a young star.
The discovery of the four exoplanets has been made by two high school students who were part of the Student Research Mentoring Program (SRMP) at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics (CfA) and MIT.
A team of scientists has developed an AI model that can predict the various theoretically stable orbital configurations of the planets in any system!
Astronomers have found the remnant core of a gas giant planet about located 730 light-years away from the Earth. This surviving core by providing a unique glimpse could help scientists understand the inner workings of planetary bodies.