239 Punjab Budget 85-86
not allowed to hold meetings there, extremists are holding meetings in Gurudwaras. That means, your ban is not effective so far as they are concerned, but their holding meetings in Gurudwaras is harming the democratic people. In this connection I request you to create such a situation through lifting of ban on public mobilisation so that things can be taken to the people and mobilisation so that things can be taken to the people and mobilisation can be done.
Now, I want to tell something about the budget. Certain things are to be referred to here. Much has been said about Thein Dam. But in the budget nothing is there considering the depth of the problem in Punjab. About Thein Dam, it all started in 1964, many years ago, and the cost for that was estimated very well over Rs. 64 crores-now it is Rs. 700 crores. Politics and economics and everything has been dragging on. So also construction has been dragging on. In this budget the allocation for it is not more. Then what is the intention of the Government? They are agriculturally advanced, but industrially backward; they have their unemployment problem but industry is poor off in this budget. So, that has to be taken into consideration.
Another thing is Kundi area which consists of Gurdaspur, Ropar and Hoshiarpur districts. There, people are suffering from lack of proper drinking water supply. Their case has to be taken up. But that has not been mentioned in this budget.
Another point is about Government wasteland and evacuees' land which have been occupied by small peasants. Now what is happening? The Government is putting these lands into auction. They are not giving the opportunity to the occupiers to have that land and that is also creating a problem. So, you have to take a decision on this.
I do not want to take much of the time of the House. It is required of the Government that they take a firm step on the points we have raised. They have to go ahead with the negotiations and they have to give up the policy of drift and mobilise the people and they have to take the Opposition into confidence for this. After all this, if the Akali Dal has failed to come up, then the Government taking the Opposition into
Punjab Budget 85-86 240
confidence should unilaterally declare their position regarding all matters that are pending and go forward to save the country.
SHRI K. D. SULTANPURI (Simla) : Mr. Chairman, Sir, I rise to support the National Security (Amendment) Bill brought forward by the Hon. Minister in this august House.
The Government had held prolonged discussions with the Akalis on the religious demands included in the Anandpur Sahib Resolution but the way the Akalis burnt the copies of the Constitution was a flagrant violation of the Constitution. In this way an attempt was made to further aggravate the situation in the Punjab as a result of which a number of persons were killed and innocent bus passengers were done to death. Shri Atwal, D. 1. G., Police was murdered outside the Gurdwara. We just watched these incidents, hoping that the situation would improve. But the Akalis never came out with a statement condemning the excesses committed on the people of the Punjab.
If any section has done a commendable job in the Punjab, it is the brave farmers, who have increased the production. Punjab has been the biggest producer of foodgrains in the entire country and the people of India too have stood by the Punjab. All the big projects and industries in Punjab today are the result of concerted efforts made not only by the Government of India but by the Congress Governments of the State also and this has given a leading position to the State. But in spite of all this, Ropar Canal was breached. It was is the Governmet of India which provided funds for all the development projects undertaken there, but the extremists breahed the Canal and diverted the flow of water to the other side.
Therefore, if peace is to be restored in Punjab, it is necessary that the National Security Act is strictly enforced in Chandigarh and Punjab so that the life and property of the people could be protected. We should also keep in mind that their leaders should be released only if they are prepared to talk peacefully, live in peace with other people in India and work for the defence of the country, but, if they talk against the interest of the country, and the opposition parties say that they should be invited to talks,
241 Punjab Budget 85-86 CHAITRA 5, 1907 (SAKA)
then I would like to ask whom we should invite. The Opposition Members should have made them understand the position in proper perspective and indicated what their suggestions were. But they are not prepared to make any suggestions.
We shall have to suppress the elements who are disturbing the peace in the country. If we do not defend our country, then we shall not be proving our loyalty to it. We shall have to pay particular attention to this aspect as Punjab is a border State and attempts are being made to disturb the peace in the State. My area touches Anandpur Sahib, Ropar and on the other side it is contiguous to Dehradun and Tibet. These extremists entered those industrial areas which are adjacent to my constituency but they could not succeed in those hill areas because it is not easy to escape. In hills one is caught easily. Some extremists had gone to upper areas like Rodu but they were apprehended by the Himachal Police. You will have to screen the Punjab Police personnel also. There should not be any delay in this regard. If we go on delaying it, then the things will go out of hand. Murderers of democracy should not be spared. You will recall that in the 1980 elections to Parliament, Shri Lehna Singh Tur was elected as the lone Akali Member. All others elected were from the Congress Party. Shri Nihalsinghwala had asked here what Shri Bhindrawale intended to do? Shri Bindrawale belonged to his village Rode and he used to live in district Patiala, in PEPSU State and there he was. *He went there and started living in a Gurudwara from where he gave a call to all the Sikhs not to obey any order of the Government, but all the Sikhs stood by India and only a few obeyed Bhindrawale; such persons can be found in every community and they should be suppressed because the people who want to dismember the nation should never be tolerated.
Regarding Punjab, I would like to say that though it is a small State, yet the country has invested a huge amount in it. You will be surprised to know that many canals have been built and big projects have been constructed in the Punjab. And recently our leader, Shri Rajiv Gandhi announced that a very big industry was proposed to be set up in the Punjab. In a meeting held in the Punjab he stated this and here also he has
expunged as ordered by the chair.
Punjab Budget 85-86
said so. Our leader Mrs. Indira Gandhi was assassinated, but there are certain people who are not ready to say that her assassination was a treachery unto the nation. Therefore, I want to say that the people who want to destroy the country should never be tolerated. At the same time, the people who are honest and who stand for national integrity should be respected everywhere. The traitors and enemies of the country who want to stale the nation in the back should not be tolerated at all.
Our state of Himachal Pradesh is a backward state and the whole of its border is contiguous with Punjab and all the industries in Himachal Pradesh are also located in the border areas. being a border area, it is easy for people to cross the border easily. I have been writing to the Central Government and I have been raising this issue in this House also several times that those industries should be shifted into the interior and we should be saved forn this vulnerable position.
Similarly, crores of rupees have been spent by both the Central and State Governments on constructing a canal in Haryana also, but there is no water in it, the reason being that the constructing of that part of canal in which Punjab is being obstructed, although it was inaugurated several years ago. It it a national loss. Some people want that the people here may die of starvation and instead of green revolution there should be bloody revolution.
Similarly, training centres have been set up in Kashmir to train people for creating disturbances in Punjab and to shoot or kill people. Hence, I would like to say that when National Security Act is invoked against anti-national elements, it should not be opposed. If we don't stand united, there will be disintegration of the country. That is why our leader has said that he is prepared to sacrifice his life in the interest of national unity.
Besides, I would like to say that the persons who deserted the Army and resorted to massacre should be given due punishment for their act of treason. Such persons should not be spared at all.
The problem of Akails is very complicated because they issue contradictory statements.
243 Punjab Budget 85-86
In the Janata Government, Shri Prakash Singh Badal and Shri Barnala were Ministers. They used to meet in gurudwaras. Turbans used to be tied there and after chanting 'Jo bole so nihal' they would come out. You have been in direct touch with the Akalis. I'am pained to say that all the person murdered in Punjab- whether Lala Jagat Narain or Rameshji, who was a noted journalist and an editor, or the M. L. As. or Shri Tiwari, Member of Rajya Sabha were intellectuals. I desire that our border should be protected and full protection should be given to the people. When Shri Nihalsinghwala said something, his car was fired at. Had his son not been with him, he would have been finished. You will have to take strict measures in this regard. I know Shri Chavan is a strong man and whatever he does, he does, with a sense of honesty and devotion. I hope he will enforce NSA in Punjab strictly and remove the sense of fear from the minds of the people. I would like to caution the Minister that all precautions should be taken for the security of our national leader, Shri Rajiv Ghadhi when he proceeds on foreign tour, because there is likelihood of his being shadowed by extremists. The entire responsibility rests on the Home Minister and the Home Ministry. You should take effective steps and enfore them strictly.
With these words I support the Bill.
SHRI ZAINUL BASHER (Ghazipur): Mr. Chairman, Sir, it is very unfortunate that we are discussing here the situation in Punjab and there is no representative of Punjab in this House. This is the first time when the Budget of a State is being discussed without apy representative of that State to participate in it. Last time, the same was the situation about Assam, but some of its Members were there in the House and they could express their views in regard to their State. The situation in Punjab is definitely becoming very grave. The new Government have been elected with a massive mandate in the name of the unity and integrity of the country. The Prime Minister has observed that his first concern would be to resolve the Punjab tangle, to restore normalcy in the State and to hold elections to Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha in Punjab. For this purpose he has set up a high-powered Cabinet Committee. Certain steps have also been taken. Some Akali leaders have also been released. GovPunjab Budget 85-86 244
ernment have tried to create an atmosphere which should be helpful in solving the Punjab problem through negotiations. Some way out will be found out through negotiations. But today it appears that in the matter of Punjab we are back to square one.
Earlier also, before the Operation Bluestar the Punjab problem was discussed in this august House on several occassions and the consensus was that the problem should be solved through negotiations. Leaders of the Opposition were also associated in the talks. Bipartite, and tripartite talks were held, but whenever some solution was in sight, disturbances used to be created in Punjab. Some violent incidents used to take place in Punjab or Chandigarh or Delhi which stalled the negotiations and created a deadlock.
There were forces which did not like such negotiations. There were occasions when an agreement was almost concluded with the Akali Dal, but the Dal backed out of that agreement. The leaders of Akali Dal were under some pressure which forced them to back out even after reaching an agreement. Today also, the same situation is there. The Prime Minister took certain steps to create an atmosphere which should prove conducive to solving the problem through negotiations. The Akali leaders have been released. He went to Punjab recently and made announcements in regard to the economy of Punjab, setting up of factories and construction of a dam there. When all these steps were being taken, a BJP leader was murdered in Chandigarh. Recently a Press report has appeared that some Akali extremists, who are active in foreign countries will try to murder the Prime Minister or other important persons of India during their visits to foreign countries. It has also been reported in the press that the Akalis are mobilising funds for imparting armed training in gurudwaras and other places. What do all these things indicate?
Earlier it used to be said that in the Akali Dal, there are moderates such as Sant Longowal and Prakash Singh Badal and there are also extremists who are nearer to Bhindrawale. Today, it appears that there are no moderates and all have become extremists. Extremism is seen everywhere. What should be done in such a situation? How can the
Punjab Budget 85-86 CHAITRA 5, 1907 (SAKA) Punjab Budget 85-86
Punjab problem be solved and who will take up this work? Mr. Chairman, you will also agree that the unity and integrity of the country cannot become a subject of negotiations, I am very much pained and I would like to express my feelings on this. Some newspapers have given an indication that the Government might refer the Anandpur Sahib Resolution to the Sarkaria Commission. I would like to know whether the policy of the Government in regard to Anandpur Sahib Resolution has undergone any change? The Anandpur Sahib Resolution hits at the very unity and integrity of our country. It is not the policy of this Government to discuss the Anandpur Sahib Resolution. Throughout the country, a doubt is being expressed whether the Anandpur Sahib Resolution can become the basis for negotiations. The Home Minister must clear the position in this regard in this House and also before the entire country. I would like to suggest that he should categorically state that neither can the Anandpur Sahib Resolution form the basis for negotiations nor can it be referred to the Sarkaria Commission, but Issues other than that can be discussed, and the economic and social problems can be discussed. If the peole of Punjab want more concessions in the economic and social fields and if they have some grievances or religious demands, then these can be discussed. Most of the religious and economic demands have been accepted and I am of the opinion that there is no harm in handing over Chandigarh to Punjab.
The Central Government can make alternative arrangements for the capital of Haryana and I feel that the people of Haryana will accept it. The question of referring the Anandpur Sahib Resolution to the Sarkaria Commission or to hold talks thereon does not arise. It is for the Akali Dal to decide how to make a start. Sant Longowal or other Akali leaders should bear in mind that the Government of India as also the country will not be prepared to hold talks at the cost of the unity and integrity of the country. If someone puts forth such a demand or talks in such a vein, Goverment will not be prepared to hold talks even if the Punjab Problem becomes more complicated. If they are keen to solve the Panjab problem and restore the same situation as obtained before the "Operation Bluester" or prior to the Bhinderawale phenomenon, then they should honestly come to the negotiation table, and I
think Government's mind is open in this regard. Government are ready to give any concession to the people of Punjab particularly the Sikhs within the framework of the unity and integrity of the country. They will have to accept basically that punjab is an integral part of this country like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. There cannot be any negotiation about secession of the State.
Mr. Chairman, Sir, it is a very painful thing that today a large number of our Sikh brethren meet us and ask us who is at fault for all that happened in Punjab be fore the "Operation Bluestar" and after it and why a part of the Sikh community has been alienated? The Sikh Community is a leading community of our country. It played a major role in the country's independence struggle, the country's development and when it came to defending the country, they were always in the forefront. Who is at fault for this feeling of alienation ? Are Government at fault for all this? I say it is the Akali Dal which is responsible for this. Government have always given concessions to the Sikhs. The Sikhs have always been given Government jobs which were on the high side in proportion to their population. They always relied on the Sikhs. It is correct that they earned this confidence on account of their good deeds.
Who is creating lack of confidence today? It is being created by the Akalis and the extremists. It is not being created by.the Congress Government. The Akalis should think over it.
I am surprised to note that top Army Officers, intellectuals and journalists write things which are beyond my comprehension. Who is responsible for this? What has been done by Government in this regard ? The Akali Dal alone is responsible for creating the present atmosphere in Punjab so far as the Sikhs are concerned.
I agree with Shri Indrajit Gupta's point that the Akali Dal should not be considered as the lone representative of the Sikhs. In the last Lok Sabha, only one Member of the Akali Dal was elected to this House, the rest of the Members belonged to the Congress. If elections are held there even now, I am sure, the Congress would come out victorious with a better margin. Therefore, the
247 Punjab Budget 85-86
Akali Dal alone should not be treated as representative of the Sikhs. Only the Akali Dal does not represent Sikhs. The Congress party, and the Janata Party, C.P.I. (M), C.P.I. also represent Sikhs. Almost all parties have Sikhs as their members. I would like to give a suggestion that Government should convene a round table conference. Representatives of all organisations in Punjab, whether they are political organisations, social organisations, or educational organisations, should be invited to this round-table conference and the Punjab problem discussed with them with an open mind. If the Akali Dal wants to join these talks, it may do so. Today, there is need to create such an atmosphere throughout the country, especially among the Sikh Community in Punjab.
If the Akali Dal does not consider itself responsible for the present atmosphere, it should come forward for talks. I think the Government of Shri Rajiv Gandhi would not hesitate to accept their reasonable and just demands which are consistent with the unity and integrity of the country.
SHRI S. JAIPAL REDDY (Mahbubnagar): The crisis of Punjab is the greatest challenge that free India as a nation has so far faced. It is a litmus test not merely for the ruling Party but for all of us as a nation. The problem of Punjab has proved to be a tragedy of errors and a story of missed and lost opportunities. It is a classic political illustration of a Greek tragedy. Everybody see that the whole thing was building up to a tragic denouncement and nobody appeared to have a will to stem the rot that was setting in. A student of history can trace the root of the problems to the Imperialist conspiracy during India's freedom struggle. But as you all know the current phase of the crisis has begun about three years back.
It all began when Akalis under the pressure of extremists called a Panthic convention and formed a charter of 45 demands. At that time Government of India did not agree to any of the demands whatever. At a later stage Mr. Parkash Singh Badal in a letter to the Opposition leaders shortened them to 10 demands out of which 4 were religious and 6 concerned all Panjabis.
Punjab Budget 85-86 248
At the tripartite conference which was attended by the Opposition parties as well Akali Dal was persuaded by Opposition parties not to insist on Anandpur Sahib Resolution. In fact, at that conference agreement was reached on all subjects expect one, namely, the question of territory relating to Abohar and Fazilka. At a later stage a consensus was reached on this question as well but somehow the agreement did not materialise.
PROF. N. G. Ranga: Why ?
[SHRI N. V. RATNAM in the Chair]
SHRI S. JAIPAL REDDY : I don't want to go into that. It could be because the government of the day did not have the will or it could be because Akali Dal leadership did not display sufficient political will to stand up to the blackmail of extremists. It could be a case of collective failure of our national leadership. I do not want to go into all that now. But I am only sorry to say that this issue has been made a plaything of partisan politics. In our young democracy we have had many glorious traditions. I may in this connection recall to you now Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru as Prime Minister of India tabled a motion on the Floor of this very House when a veteran Opposition leader, Acharya Kriplani was pillorised by a news magazine. But then, Sir, look at the level of debate in the house today! Just now one Hon. Member was levelling grave allegations against the leader of Opposition parties. If the member alone had made allegations I would ignore them but may I bring to your notice that the Hon. Prime Minister of the country, Shri Rajiv Gandhi, had himself levelled grave allegations against the leadership of the Opposition parties. On the eve of Lok Sabha polls he said that the Opposition parties had supported the Anandpur Sahib Resolution but nobody has so far produced a shred of eviIdence in this behalf.
SHRI RAJESH PILOT: Will the Hon. Member give me a minute?
SHRI S. JAIPAL REDDY : No. I am not yielding. Very subtly an attempt was made to demolish the distinction between Opposition and Sikhs in the first place; bet249 Punjab Budget 85-86
CHAITRA 5, 1907 (SAKA) Punjab Budget 85-86 250
crisis. The economic progress of Punjab nas been something which has been admired by the people of the country. Punjab was one State of which all of us have been proud. People in all parts of the country used to derive inspiration from the economic model of Punjab. Our Finance Minister's budget shows that during 1984-85 there was a deficit of Rs. 70 crores of revenue. This shows what tremendous havoc has been caused to the economic fabric of Punjab State, after Blue Star operation. A responsible daily like "The Hindu' in its editorial stated that the actual cost of Blue Star Operation itself was of the order of Rs. 100 crores. Apart from that, the cost involved in the economic damage such as breach in the canals had itself amounted to one thousand crores of rupees. It is therefore, correct that the Finance Minister had in fact considered the proposal to grant Rs. 100 crores as special assistance to the State of Punjab. Such a gesture in my view is very right and very welcome.
ween Sikhs and Akalis in the second place, between Akalis and extremists in the third place and in the ultimate analysis the distinction between the opposition and the extremists themselves. One thought that this game of calling names would be put an end to, once the Lok Sabha elections are over. When Mr. H.K.L. Bhagat was sent as an emissary of Prime Minister to leaders of opposition parties and sought their cooperation one thought that this dangerous game of treating Punjab as a partisan issue would be put an end to. But then again at the time of Assembly elections, the Prime Minister himself started the ball rolling. He began to suggest that the opposition parties had been in league with secessionist elements. In fact he referred to some meeting of a former Janata Minister at London with some Sikhs. I take this opportunity to demand a judicial enquiry into the allegations made by the Prime Minister against opposition leaders. If Prime Minister does not agree to that, he must agree to withdraw the charges. I do not want the Prime Minister of this great nation of 700 million people to make any irresponsible, malicious or false allegations and got away with them.
SHRI RAJESH PILOT : He is an elected Prime Minister, not nominated.
SHRI S. JAIPAL REDDY: He is not elected to make irresponsible statements. He is elected to run this country in a responsible
The problem of Punjab poses a serious challenge to all the cherished lues of our freedom struggle and of free India. Now the Hon. Home Minister is seeking extension of President's rule. Against this background there is no option but to agree to extension of President's rule. With this the primary values of democracy that we cherish are getting eroded. Even the value of secularism is getting eroded. That apart, when noneconomic issues like Punjab dominate the minds of people, basic economic issues and basic social issues get relegated to the background. As a consequence, reactionary forces gain the upper hand.
The budget presented by the Finance Minister is a clear indication of the upper hand that the reactionary forces have gained in the country on account of number of developments including that of the Punjab
Sir, this is perhaps the last opportunity we have for a peaceful negotiated settlement of the problem. The Government did well, in my view, by releasing some of the prominent leaders of Akali Dal. But this was a very half-hearted halting, hesitant measure. In my considered view, other leaders like Shri Prakash Singh Badal and Shri Tohra must also be released. As we all know Shri Prakash Singh Badal has been a stout and an authentic moderate on the whole question of Punjab.
Sir, I also welcome the change in the attitude of the Prime Minister towards the question of Punjab. At one time, he was not prepared to touch the Anandpur Sahib Resolution with a barge pole or a pair of tongs. But I was happy to know that the Prime Minister recently gave an indication that he did not find everything wrong with the Anandpur Sahib Resolution and only some parts of the Resolution were objectionable. He did not even object to refer those parts to Sarkaria Commission.
Now, coming to the question of demand for judicial inquiry into the riots that followed the assassination of our late lamented Prime Minister, Shrimati Indira Gandhi, if this is the only obstacle, I do not see any reason why the Government should stand in the way. I am also happy to note that the
251 Punjab Budget 85-86
Prime Minister gave an indication of his preparedness to consider this also. Now, in my view, it is the Akali Dal's responsibility to rise to the occasion. Whenever in the past any concerted attempt was made to bring about settlement, the extremists were always at work to create condition under which the solution would never materialise and we find the standard pattern followed by them in this respect was repeated again in the form of incidents that took place in the last two days. This is one of the actions to spoil the atmosphere that is slowly building itself up namely the killing of B.J.P. leader. But it is necessary for the Government and the leadership of Akali Dal not be deflected from the determined course in regard to this issue.
Sir, whatever allegations the ruling party might have levelled against the Opposition parties, I would like to state that patriotism is not the monopoly of the Congress-1 Party and I may also state that those who doubt the patriotism of veteran opposition leaders cannot themselves be credited with the over-dose of these patriotism. We are so intensely patriotic that we are prepared to lend our unstinted unqualified cooperation for any meaningful initiative to be taken for the solution of the problem.
SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DAS MUNSI (Howrah) Mr. Chairman, Sir, I rise to support the Resolution moved by the Hon. Home Minister for the continuance of the Proclamation in Punjab and also the Punjab Budget. Sir, with rapt attention, I was hearing the contributions made by several Hon. Members from the Opposition. It is a 15,00 hrs.
fact that the question of Punjab should not be discussed with narrow angularities, whether from our side or their side. I quite share the concern of my hon. young friend, Shri Saifuddin Chowdhury that this is a matter to be discussed and dealt with sincerity of purpose in order to achieve the goal for the unity of the country.
We are well aware right from the days of the national struggle of the role played by Punjab and many other parts of the country. Gurudev Tagore, while he composed the national song, paid the highest tribute to the contribution of Punjab. The second sentence of the national song starts with no other part
Punjab Budget 85-86 252
of the country. but Punjab-Punjab Sind Gujarat Maratha, Dravid Utkal Banga.
Gurudev Tagore himself came forward to denounce the British regime in those days and declared that he would not care for the knight title given by the British to him when the Jallianwala massacre took place. Swami Shardhanand came forward from Bengal to Jallianwala Bagh and for the first time in his life being a Sanyasi renounced his Sanyas and, came in the national mainstream, and took part in the direct politics in the Congress session when it was held in Amritsar. Therefore, Punjab culturally, politically is and emotionally is not the link of Punjab alone, it is the link of the whole country. Late Lala Lajpat Rai was a great martyr of the country. We all know what contributions all martyrs from Bhagat Singh to Lala Lajpat Rai made for the freedom of the country.
I have seen the extremist movement during my student days in 1967 to 1971 in Bengal. It was written on the walls throughout that the power would come out of the barrel of the gun. At the initial stage, it is a fact that irrespective of political parties, whether they belonged to the CPIM, CPI or Congress, each one became a victim in their hands, but with great tenacity they went to the people to convince them of one aspect that it is not the barrel of the gun that is powerful, it is the people and their will which is powerful. I am sorry to say that if such efforts would have been made by all the political forces inside Punjab even long before the Blue Star Operation, though the casualties of Congress, CPI or CPIM would have been much more, but I am sure, whether it was Bhindranwale and his gangesters inside the temple, or others; their guns would have been shown as the smallest ones than the might of the people. But what had happened had happened.
The opposition is very much anxious to know what Government is doing about Punjab. First, I would like to deal with Shri Jaipal Reddy from Janta Party, who just spoke. If some Members like him are very keen to know about enquiry into the riots that took place following assassination of Shrimati Indira Gandhi, I would like to tell them that the greatest enquiry of this land was held by the people of the country in the last Lok Sabha elections. Then, the Members from the opposition constantly
Punjab Budget 85-86 CHAITRA, 5, 1907 (SAKA) Punjab Budget 85-86
argue the point as to why our Prime Minister has accused the opposition leaders. Even if the Prime Minister has accused or expressed some remarks that the opposition did not behave with responsibility, can you deny the fact that during the last Lok Sabha elections throughout the country, you deliberately painted on the walls that there was only one party, which was responsible for the riots? You tried to convince the electorates about this. I can substantiate this with documents and photos; you maliciously abused the Congress Party and their leaders that they engineered the riots. But what happend when you placed these facts before the people? They are the best judge. What was their reply? Their reply was that this was not a fact. Those who are rioters, they are rioters, do not bracket them with Communists, Congress or any other party. They are rioters. You were talking of the non-official enquiry committee and the socalled judges and the PUCL documents. I know the PUCL people. There are some people of this country, who are not intellectuals, but they are professional intellectuals and traders. I am sorry to say that. Why was this inquiry not held when there was a massacre in Belchi, when Janata Government was in power ? Why such an inquiry was not held when large scale rigging reports were received from Bengal after the Assembly elections? Mr. Turkunde was given the facts. Can they deny the facts ? At that time, they did not find time for an enquiry. They are much more keen on the inquiry on what happened after the assasination of Mrs. Indira Gandhi. They are not keen on the inquiry why and when the baby of Anandpur Sahib Resolution was born, why and when the head of the Nirankaris, Lala Jagat Narain, D. I. G. Atwal and lastly the BJP leader in Chandigarh were killed. They did not go into these aspects. Had they travelled widely in Punjab to see the situation on the spot and to face the extremists? Had they ever said that we were the intellectuals and we would like to shed our blood first if you did not stop the killings? No. They would sit in Delhi and would like to have an inquiry when Congress is in power. With all my regards towards the intellectuals, I would say that many of them are professionals and traders. They are not intellectuals in the real sense and meaning of the term. Had they been really intellectuals, where had they gone when Mrs. Gandhi was
appealing in her television speech on Punjab long before the Operation Blue Star and said, "I am compelled to take this stand, but still I am thinking, if they resume to talk to me."? Where had those intellectuals gone then? Had they gone out ? Could they not persuade them to come and resume the talks? Is it the behaviour of the intellectuals that they would hold an inquiry and submit the literature to the Government. Will Government take cognizance of it ? I equally blame them. They are irresponsible cowards. When a coward's pen writes, it is not ink that flows from it but the motives. They just take the opportunity of the hour and make things much more confusing. Well, of course it is a fact that these are riots, and many more people took advantage of the situations and the whole people of the country became panicky. I shed my tears days in and days out when Mrs. Gandhi was assasinated. I equally shed my tears for those families who had lost their people and became victims in the hands of antisocial elements. No one is happy. Do you think that we are happy? Do you think that we engineered the whole thing? Do you think that it is the Congress Party behind it? It is the assumption of the Opposition and of course, people replied to that.
Mr. Chairman Sir, I would like to ask a simple question. Our CPI(M) friends from Bengal (I do not want to bring in politics) always go on asking for inquiries and inquiries. Being a Leftist Party, will they answer a very simple question? When the refugees of Markh Jhanpi were killed, were you ready to have an inquiry? Did you instal a single inquiry when riots on a large scale took place? What can a judicial inquiry do ? It can at best report as to how many were killed and as to what was the quantum of property lost? How could you identify the persons who were hired elements? They go here and there. About the riots in Pakistan, riots in Greater Calcutta killing how many inquiries revealed how many facts ? Mahatma Gandhi died and the casualty occurred to the Indian National Congress. It was Lal Bahadur Shastri who while concluding a Treaty of Friendship with Pakistan died in Tashkent. It was Mrs. Indira Gandhi who sacrificed her life and nobody else. On every occasion, whenever any crisis came, I have seen that the greatest casualty was suffered by the Indian National Congress. The
255 Punjab Budget 85-86
Opposition may say whatever they like. The Indian National Congress and its leaders gave everything for the country. The Opposition leaders forget all the things. In the past everytime they said that the Opposition should be taken into confidence. The day Rajivji took over as Prime Minister of the country, that very day or the next day, he met the Opposition to deal with the situation in Delhi. He was all serious. Indiraji when he was alive, not on one occasion, but on three occasions, held discussions, with the Opposition.
The Opposition Parties say that they are not with the Anandpur Sahib Resolution. Can you show any political text, not merely the speeches, but the text of the political parties like the Indian National Congress saying, 'here we are. We condemn the Anandpur Sahib Resolution and its motive altogether."? No, Some say a few parts of it. Some say this part and some others say that part. Sir, I want to raise this question, when the baby was born.
PROF. MADHU DANDAVATE (Rajapur): Fortunately, even the Prime Minister has now recently declared that he was not at all against the Anandpur Sahib Resolution as a whole, but there were certain parts. He said that.
SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DAS MUNSI : Yes. I am coming to it. Shri Jaipal Reddy said that they have no links with it. I would like to remind him as to when the baby was born. The baby was born in Ludhiana Resolution in 1978 on 27-29 October. The Janata Party was then united under the leadership of Talvandiji. And the chairman of the drafting committee was no less a person than the Janata Governmet's Minister, Mr. Surjeet Singh Barnala. And in his presence, who was the special invitee to address the gathering of Akalis in Ludhiana when the resolution was adopted-do you know it? It was the united Janata Party's president, Mr. Chandra Shekhar. He addressed the gathering. Yes; I say this with authority. He addressed the gathering.
SHRI S. JAIPAL REDDY: If you yield, I would like to say something.
SHRI PRIYA RANJANDAS MUNSI ; I will finish; then you can give your comPunjab Budget 85-86 256
ments. I do not blame them. What I want to say is that it is not that it was not known to them; it was done in his presence. He was a special invitee. He addressed the gathering. The resolution was drafted, and only one sentence was mentioned, saying that the resolution was being adopted in the light of the Anandpur Sahib resolution. What is that light, is still not known to us. That document was passed in 1978. Who was the Prime Minister at that time? Shri Morarji Desai. It was placed before Mr. Morarji Desai. He took some objection. He did not make any murmur. There was no compulsion on the Janata Party at that stage from the Akali party that if Mr. Barnala was out of the Government, the Government would collapse. No, But they kept quiet. They did not make things known to the people.
At that stage, the baby was born, and he was allowed to grow, and grow to such an extent that when Indiraji came to power, the matter was referred to at an appropriate moment. Is it not political blackmail? Is it not a shame ?
SHRI S. JAIPAL REDDY Will you kindly yield ?
SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DAS MUNSI : While you spoke, I did not say anything,
SHRI S.JAIPAL REDDY: The Anandpur Sahib resolution was passed in 1973. That is the first thing. In 1978., another version was published. At that time, Mr. Chandra Shekhar was present, and told the Pressmen that he was not in agreement with many portions of the resolution. It was on record.
SHRI PRIYA RANJAN DAS MUNSI :
I am neither holding any brief on behalf of Mr. Chandra Shekhar, nor accusing him. What I am telling is that this matter was not a new thing. It was known to them also on that day, when they were on that side. But they did not take up the matter at that hour, any say that it should be nipped in the bud. They allowed the baby to grow, they allowed the seed to grow and grow to such an extent that when the Congress came back to power, they found time to refer to it. I do not blame any party. What I say is that it was done with their knowledge, and they did not make it known to the people.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Come to the subject proper.