The World Taekwondo Federation (WTF) has appointed Hoss Rafaty as its new secretary general and has awarded the 2017 World Championships to Muju in South Korea.
The International Judo Federation (IJF) has awarded its 2015 World Championships Veterans and World Championships Kata events to Amsterdam.
The Peruvian capital of Lima has been appointed to host the 2017 edition of the World Combat Games multi-sport event.
The World Taekwondo Federation global governing body is planning to launch a new professional league, according to president Chung-won Choue.
The Azerbaijani capital of Baku is to stage another major sports event after it was awarded the hosting rights to the 2020 European Karate Championships.
Budapest has been confirmed as the host city for the 2017 Judo World Championships.
The International Wushu Federation (IWUF) has said it will return to the bidding circle for the Olympic Games and is hoping to increase its chances by boosting participation in Africa and the Americas.
The 2015 European Judo Championships will be staged in Baku as part of the inaugural European Games multi-sport event after Glasgow was stripped of the hosting rights last week.
British Judo has criticised the European Judo Union (EJU) after the cancellation of Glasgow’s hosting rights to the 2015 European Judo Championships was confirmed.
The European Judo Union (EJU) has stripped its 2015 European Championships from Glasgow amid a dispute over the British Judo Association’s (BJA) signing of a commercial partnership with mixed martial arts organisation the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC).
The Hungarian government has claimed success in the eastern European country’s bid to stage the 2017 Judo World Championship.
Samsun in Turkey has replaced Doha as an event host on the 2015 World Taekwondo Federation (WTF) Grand Prix calendar less than three weeks after the Qatari capital was named as a replacement for the Chinese city of Suzhou on the schedule.
A panel has been established to determine possible additional sporting events to be added to the programme for the Tokyo 2020 winter Games.
World Karate Federation (WKF) president Antonio Espinos has met with organisers of Tokyo’s 2020 summer Olympic Games in order to make a case for the sport’s inclusion at the event.
Singapore (23 December 2014): Following a joint meeting between the International Sepaktakraw Federation (ISTAF), Malaysian Sepaktakraw Association (PSM) and Asia Sports Ventures, ASV is proud to announced that the second leg of the ISTAF SuperSeries 2014/15 will be held in Kuala Lumpur, in the heart of the city of Malaysia.
The World Taekwondo Federation (WTF) has announced an alteration to the calendar for its 2015 Grand Prix Series, with Doha in Qatar replacing the Chinese city of Suzhou on the schedule.
The World Karate Federation (WKF) has announced its Premier League competition will take to Africa and South America for the first time, with Egypt and Brazil awarded legs on the 2015 calendar.
Sportswear company Reebok has completed the acquisition of UK-based boxing and martial arts brand LUTA.