We expect HCL's Q3FY24 revenue to grow in the mid-single digits QoQ driven by the Verizon deal ramp-up, the additional contribution from the ASAP Group acquisition for two months, and the seasonality benefits in the Products and Platform (P&P) business.
Infosys will announce its October-December quarter earnings on January 11, Thursday. The company witnessed a setback in the form of a recent termination of a $1.5 billion AI deal with an unnamed global company, which Elara said, added to the company's growth headwinds in the near term.
TCS Q3 Preview: PAT growth will likely be lower this time as against a 10.98% YoY increase the company reported during the December quarter last fiscal. On a sequential basis, the net profit is expected to grow 0.6%, as higher-than-usual furloughs are set to offset growth in Q3FY24.
The US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) has finalized a rule announcing an increase in premium processing fees for specific visa categories, including H-1B applications. Immigration attorneys advise sponsoring employers to consider the new fees in their immigration budget planning.
The company had posted a profit of Rs 198 crore in the preceding June quarter. During the quarter, the passenger RASK increased by 11% due to increase in yield by 8% and load factor by 3%. The airline has launched 13 new routes during the quarter. In the planned and phased infusion of fresh capital of Rs 500 crore by the promoter, Rs 200 crore has already been received by the company.
Honasa said it is continuing to focus on strong offline distribution as well. As per NielsenIQ, brands of Honasa Consumer retailed at 1.65 lakh offline outlets in September 2023, an increase of 47% in offline distribution YoY. In the first half, the company clocked Rs 961 crore in revenue from operations, growing 33% YoY (like-for-like growth of continuing business was 36%). This was driven by volume growth of 35% YoY.
"Given a lack of history and our understanding of seasonality, we forecast a 20% YoY growth in 2Q with slight QoQ margin improvement. We do note that ERP implementation in the base has boosted YoY growth in 1QFY24 and 1HFY24 revenue growth should still be c30%," Jefferies analyst Vivek Maheshwari said.
Revenue from operations in the reporting period rose 10% to Rs 30,221 crore against Rs 27,486 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. The revenue growth was driven by the performance of key subsidiaries -- UltraTech Cement and Aditya Birla Capital. However, softening of realisations in Caustic Soda impacted the standalone performance.
Net commission for the quarter stood at Rs 6,077 crore, compared with Rs 5,808 crore a year ago. The solvency ratio as of September-end stood at 1.90 times, compared with 1.88 times a year ago. The gross non-performing assets ratio as of September 30 was 2.43%, compared with 5.60% a year ago, and 2.48% a quarter ago.
Net profit rose to 9.99 billion rupees ($119.95 million) for the quarter ended Sept. 30 from 3.72 billion rupees a year earlier, said the company, which makes a wide range of auto parts such as braking systems and batteries.
Tata Motors Q2 Results: Consolidated revenue from operations increased 32% year-on-year (YoY) to Rs 1.05 lakh crore, tad lower than the estimated Rs 1.07 lakh crore. Strong profitable growth across auto verticals drove the topline in the quarter, while robust wholesale sales and improved mix aided the expansion in margins, the company said.
PNB Q2 Results: Net interest income (NII) during the second quarter rose 20% year-on-year to Rs 9,923 crore. It was Rs 8,271 crore in the year-ago period. Operating profit (before provisions and contingencies) jumped 12% to Rs 6,216 crore in the reporting period as against Rs 5,567 crore in the last year period.
The company reported strong tower additions and reduced finance costs, even though its key customer, Vodafone Idea (Vi) cited challenges in clearing its massive past dues. In a statement Wednesday, Indus managing director Prachur Sah said the tower company had recorded the highest quarterly tower additions in the company’s history, outdoing the previous quarter’s performance on this metric.
Axis Capital's Manik Taneja says that tier-1 tech companies have managed to maintain margins well, with some deferring wage implements. However, growth has been modest and below expectations for most companies in the IT sector. Taneja does not expect significant positive surprises in Tech Mahindra's upcoming earnings report and believes that the company's margins may not show a significant uplift. Axis Capital has a negative view on the sector overall, with Tech Mahindra being the only positive-rated stock among tier-1 companies.
Hindustan Zinc's revenue from operations during the quarter ended September declined 16% year-on-year to Rs 6,619 crore as against Rs 8,127 crore in the same quarter of the previous year. The company has reported an EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) of Rs 3,139 crore, down about 24% year-on-year. Margins too declined to 46.2%.
Vijayakumar told ET that the lack of discretionary spending across clients through the past two quarters and limited resumption visibility on customer expenditures have been the key factors for slashing organic revenue growth guidance.
HCL Tech's CEO and CFO discussed the company's Q2 results and their confidence in meeting their guidance for the next two quarters. They highlighted a large deal going live in November and December, which will contribute to strong growth in Q3. They also mentioned that the deal, worth $2.1 billion over six years, is a significant part of the 2.6-3.8% organic services growth target. The executives expressed optimism about the long-term growth potential of the industry and stable pricing environment.
HCL Tech has lowered its guidance for FY24 by 300 basis points, from 6-8% to 4-5%. However, the company's Q2 numbers are not bad. The silver lining for HCL Tech is that the second half of the year is expected to grow faster than the first half, unlike Infosys. The IT services business grew by only 0.9%, while ER&D jumped up by 5%. The slowdown in services revenue is a bigger concern. Europe is the slowest growth area for HCL Tech.
The software major sees revenue growing 1.0-2.5% in constant currency terms in FY24, compared to 1.0-3.5% earlier. This is primarily due to a slowdown in discretionary spending, the company said in a post-earnings press conference. While Infosys cut the upper end of its revenue growth guidance, the company retained its operating margin target of 20-22%.
The higher growth in the profit despite a muted topline is primarily due to ITC’s higher dependence on the cigarette business. Despite a scale-up in the FMCG business, cigarettes constitute close to 70% of ITC’s profit and about 45% of its revenue.
NIIT Group's chairman Rajendra Singh Pawar is optimistic about the training industry's ability to cope with the hiring slowdown from the IT industry. "In terms of profitability, EBITDA, which was minus 9.5 crore, is now minus 6.3 crore. So, we see an improvement going forward. And at the PAT level, versus minus 9.4, we are at 2.2 crore plus. So, perhaps there is a bottoming out of the shock that came from the IT industry and its tightening of the belt in terms of hiring. "