Paper wallpaper as one of the most common types of wall decoration remained in the past. They were replaced by a variety of diverse materials, from vinyl wallpaper and finishing with decorative plaster . Do not remain without attention and soft wall panels, the design of which has undergone drastic changes over the past decades.
 Today, soft panels in the interior - a synonym for comfort and home comfort. They decorate the walls in the living room and dining room, the headboard of the bed in the bedroom or in the nursery, often the soft panels are used for the bathroom or as soft inserts in the cabinet furniture. As for the stylistic orientation, even here this decoration can be completely different, harmoniously fitting both into strict classics, and into the exquisite interior of the Baroque, fashionable high-tech or techno.
 The advantages of using soft panels when decorating living rooms are obvious. First, it is their aesthetics. Secondly, heat and sound insulation. And thirdly, ease of installation (no preliminary preparation is required) and in the subsequent care. And do not forget that the wall panels made of high-quality modern materials are also environmentally friendly, anti-allergic and even have resistance properties to the claws of domestic animals.
 The main difference between soft wall panels is the material from which they are made. It can be fabric, genuine leather or imitation leather. The design of cloth implies the most democratic prices. Used for this is the same fabric as for upholstery furniture, because it should be strong enough and wear-resistant.
 Leather soft panels for walls not everyone can afford, and will not go far to every room. But the skin looks ideal in the expensive interior of the cabinet, library, billiard room, etc. Artificial leather is more practical in use and is performed in a variety of design variations, but more often - in the form of individual tiles or in the style of Kapiton, which will be discussed later. Internal filling of panels is more often foam rubber or more modern sintepon. The first one makes it possible to create a thick and thick inner layer and looks more magnificent, while using the second, the surface of the panel looks more even.
 The panels differ according to the type of formation of the softest surface. This can be drapery (when the fabric is glued to a wall without a filler), full or partial wall tightening using a rack frame or the formation of individual tiles and the subsequent gluing of the walls. Very popular is the carriage way, which is also called Kapiton style. It is a fixation of soft material in the central part of large decorative elements such as buttons. It is used in the design of classical interiors with a touch of aristocracy.
 The most modern trend in the design of soft covering for walls is the 3d panel, combining all the best properties. Panels with 3d effect will give a feeling of warmth and comfort, safety and comfort. Unique textures of such panels for snake skin, zebra or, for example, gold, will help create a truly unforgettable, exclusive interior.
 As you can see, the decoration of the walls with soft panels is an excellent option, aesthetic and at the same time practical. Ideally, this process from the creation of a design project of the room to the installation of the panels themselves must be conducted under the guidance of a competent specialist. But, if you decide to independently repair your apartment, then you can do without your own, by making and installing soft wall panels with your own hands.