D7 Visa Portugal is one of the residency programs that Portugal has been providing for foreigners since 2007. Citizens from outside the EU, EEA, and Switzerland can apply for D7.
You can benefit from the program if you have a regular passive income. Thus, it’s also called Passive Income Visa, or Retirement Visa.
Your D7 Visa provides you with the benefit of legal residence in Portugal with your family.
Let’s get to know about the program in detail.
Although it’s suitable for passive income holders, D7 Visa Portugal doesn’t restrict applicants from professional activity in Portugal.
To be eligible for the program, your yearly income must be €8,460. In addition, 50 percent of this is required for your spouse. An additional 30 percent is required for each of your dependent kids.
- Financial investment.
In all cases, you can be eligible to apply for the program.
It’s possible to apply for Portugal D7 Visa at the Portuguese consulate.
Besides all these benefits, you can travel in the Schengen zone without a visa requirement.
The program offers various advantages including family inclusion, mobility, and the potential of permanent residency.
Holding a D7 Visa means you can visit Schengen countries without an additional visa requirement.
The NHR (non-habitual residency) Program can benefit you in terms of taxes. It’s applicable for applicants who have not been tax residents in Portugal in the last five years. Thanks to NHR, your foreign income will be exempt from many taxes for 10 years.
You can start a professional activity in Portugal, and there’s no restriction to this.
Eligible family members to get D7 Visa Portugal are:
- Your/your spouse’s/your partner’s dependent parents.
Once you get a D7 Visa Portugal, you become a resident in Portugal. This means that you have access to the following:
- Portuguese Law and Legal System.
At the first step, you get a one-year residency right through D7. Then, you renew it every two years. At the end of five years residency, it’s possible to apply for permanent residency in Portugal.
If you want to become a Portuguese citizen, you can do this through naturalization. This means that you’ll need to pass a language test.
Portugal D7 Visa requirements are listed as follows:
- Spending at least 16 months in Portugal in the first two-year period. In addition, spending 28 months in the next three years is a must.
- Finally, you can enter Portugal through your Portugal D7 Visa. A four-months-residency will be available as the first step. You must apply for a residence permit during this time.
Usually, it takes around a month to get all your documents.
The required fees coming with D7 Visa are:
- Property costs like renting or purchase.
So, D7 Visa Portugal offers you and your family extended mobility and second residency rights. Apply today and don’t miss this opportunity anymore!The post About D7 Visa Portugal first appeared on TamilDada.