LIG vs CYM Dream 11 Prediction: Limassol Gladiators CC vs Cyprus Moufflons CC Best Dream 11 team for ECN Cyprus T10 League 2020 – 20 July 2020 (Cyprus)
Limassol Gladiators CC will take on Cyprus Moufflons CC in the ECN Cyprus T10 League 2020 which will be played in the Island country Cyprus. Another week and the caravan of the ECS T10 league has reached yet another country. Cyprus will now witness a week of T10 cricket where five teams will battle against each other to win the T10 tournament.
This is the first game of the tournament for both the teams and it is yet to be seen how both of these teams will perform in the match. However, T10 leagues are always fun and this can be a yet another joy ride for the cricket fans. Moufflons looks like a very strong side on paper than the Gladiators.
Pitch Report – Artificial surface will be used in the game.
Match Details :
Limassol Gladiators CC – Shahid Ali, Shahzaib Shah, Venkat Reddy, Hamid Bilal, Sadiq Khan, Noman Zeb, Honey Gori, Babar Ayub, Murtaza Khan, Naresh Kumar, Anwar Jahid.
Cyprus Moufflons CC– Zeeshan Sarwar, Mehran Khan, Muhammad Hussain, Ghulam Murtaza, Gurdeep Sharma, Gursewak Singh, Ravi Kumar, Lakhwinder Singh, Mutaza Yamin, Waqar Ali, Gaganpreet Singh.
G Sharma, S Shah, N Zeb, L Singh, and M Hussain.
S Ali (Price 9) will be our wicket-keeper. He has scored 269 runs in 17 games. He is a decent enough batsman and should be in our team.
S Shah (Price 10) will be our batsman from the Limassol Gladiators Side. He has scored 694 runs in 32 games. He is one of the best batsmen of the side and should be picked.
M Hussain (Price 9) and G Murtaza (Price 8.5) will be our batsmen from the Cyprus Moufflons Side. Hussain has scored 883 runs in 53 games and has also picked 31 wickets with the ball whereas Murtaza has scored 440 runs in 22 games and has picked 9 wickets with the ball. Both of them are really good players to have in the team.
S Khan (Price 9.5) and S Zeb (Price 9) will be our all-rounders from the Limassol Gladiators Side. Khan has scored 390 runs in 18 games and has picked 3 wickets with the ball whereas Zeb’s exact scores are not available but if this side will do well then Zeb will surely play a really big role and is a very good player and should be picked.
G Sharma (Price 9.5) and G Singh (Price 9) will be our all-rounders from the Cyprus Moufflons side. Sharma has scored 346 runs 35 games and has also picked 34 wickets with the ball whereas Singh has scored 220 runs 14 games and also has picked 9 wickets with the ball. Both of them should be picked.
R Kumar (Price 9) and W Ali (Price 8.5) will be our bowlers from the Cyprus Moufflons side. Both of them are decent wicket-takers. Kumar has picked 19 wickets in 7 games whereas Ali has picked 30 wickets in 15 games. Both of them should be picked.
B Ayub (Price 9) will be our bowler from the Limassol Gladiators side and will complete our team. He has picked 7 wickets in 17 games and is a very decent bowler. He can contribute with the bat as well and should be picked.
Match Prediction: Cyprus Moufflons CC will be the favourites to win this game.
Note: For Updated teams after the lineup announcement, join The SportsRush Premium on our mobile app.
All our selections are based on in-depth and astute analysis of the players partaking in the match and a perusal of other reasoning. Please incorporate a slew of factors while crafting your own side with this article serving as a guide to the match and players.