‘Mother India’ – is one movie that possibly cannot be missed when it comes to a list like this. Which other movie can possibly comprehend the perfect mother figure? ‘Masoom’ – the Bollywood version of ‘Man Woman and Child’ that gave the conviction of a mother and wife a new dimension. The Bollywood find of the decade perhaps – Vidya Balan going over the top with her sex appeal to play the 80’s dancing star Silk Smitha in ‘The Dirty Picture’. And Balan won a National Award for Best Actress for her role, besides the Filmfare. ‘The Help’ not too far from ‘The Colour Purple’ but the fight for equality strives on. ‘Kahaani’ – a pregnant woman’s search for her missing husband – a conviction to find someone who probably doesn’t exist. ‘Saat Khoon Maaf’ – seven faces of a woman if we put it simply – but perhaps 7 ways a woman can be loves and the potential dangers of all. Natalie Portman’s Oscar winning role in the ‘Black Swan’ – showed the murderous weight of ambition and the deranged mother daughter equation that pushes a ballerina to the brink. ‘Teen Kanya’ – 3 women – three stories. Satyajit Ray’s direction hits the right chord to understanding and loving all the three women. ‘Page 3’ looked in to the life of a female journalist – Page 3 and back. A realistic portrayal of the perils of the trade. ‘Frida’ – the inner world of one of the most creative women – and how she was misunderstood. ‘Mandi’ – the other side of the saint – explored. ‘Kill Bill’ – and ‘Kill Bill 2’ – The scorned woman’s fury – Hollywood style. ‘Fiza’ had Karishma Kapoor playing the role of a good daughter and an even better sister who tries to get her terrorist bother back to society. Stayajit Ray’s ‘Pather Panchali’ gave the perfect perspective to a mother-son and an older sister – younger brother relationship beautifully. The protagonist Apu grows up (over the next two movies of the trilogy) with the indelible influence of his mother and older sister. ‘Mona Lisa Smile’ – women’s empowerment the nice way. Starting with ‘Breakfast at Tiffany’s’ – perhaps the fashion icon for women for all times -Audrey Hepburn. Directed by Rajkumar Santoshi – ‘Lajja’ showed the different faces of women across India – the wife, the daughter, the prostitute, the saviour – with different names of Durga – ‘Lajja’ was a hard hitting movie. ‘Shakti’ had Karishma Kapoor fighting a battle to save her son from a patriarchal and almost monstrous father-in-law after the death of her husband. Sharmila Tagore in and as ‘Devi’ – the quintessential woman being venerated to the level of a goddess. The eternal classic – ‘The Little Women’ – made and remade in various versions for TV and the big screen – pick any and watch it this Women’s Day. ‘Million Dollar Baby’ – had Hillary Swank playing the role of the an amateur boxer coached by Clint Eastwood to a peak in her career and then the inevitable collapse when she gets injured during a fight.