Athirapally waterfalls is the largest waterfall in the state.The Kerala Government is planning to construct a dam at the Athirapally waterfalls on the Chalakudy river. The proposed dam will affect the fragile ecology of the area and livelihood of tribal families depending on the forest and river. The project will also reduce or dry up the water-flow of Athirapally waterfalls which harnesses ecology and tourism in the area. For the past few years Kerala has been receiving less rainfall and it is said that the state of Kerala will be facing a severe drought in the future. This project will definitely lead to a large scale deforestation and submergence of many acres of forest land. The dam is proposed on the Chalakudy River which is 5th largest river in Kerala and is a tributary of the Periyar River. The reduced river flow will have impact on more than 5 lakh people who depend on the river for drinking, irrigation and livelihood purposes.
The scenic beauty of the place attracts more than 6 lakh people every year to visit Athirappilly waterfalls. The reduced water flow will severely affect the tourism industry and the economy based on it. Most importantly the project will lead to large scale displacement of the Kadar tribes settled near the river basin. Their livelihood solely depends on the river and forest and it is at stake now. We have all read about the consequences of development induced displacements. The residents of Moolampilly ( Ernakulam, Kerala) who were forcibly evicted from their lands for the Vallarpadam International Container Transshipment Terminal are yet to receive the promised compensation and rehabilitation.
This move of the Kerala government comes at a time when dams are being dismantled in the US for preserving the aquatic life and to restore the natural course of the rivers. An example is the Glines Canyon Dam on the Elwha River, USA.
Please sign my petition asking the Kerala government to not to go ahead with the project and to look for renewable sources for generating electricity.
Thank you for your support,