Aditya Chopra's latest production Dhoom 3, the third installment in the popular Dhoom series, has stormed the Indian Box Office in the first weekend. With its fantastic 3-day collection, the Aamir Khan, Abhishek Bachchan, Uday Chopra and Katrina Kaif starrer has smashed all the records of Shahrukh Khan's Chennai Express and Hrithik Roshan's Krrish 3. Having crossed Rs 100 crore mark in three days, the film has become the fastest Rs 100 crore grosser in the domestic market.
Dhoom 3, which released with Hindi, Telugu and Tamil versions in 4,500 screens across the country, had a huge amount of advance ticket booking on its opening day. With this, the movie registered 95% to 100% occupancy in both single screens and multiplexes across the country on Friday. The film collected Rs 33.42 crores nett from its Hindi version and Rs 2.80 crores from Tamil and Telugu versions. It minted a total of Rs 36.22 crores nett at the Indian Box Office on the first day.
Despite getting positive response from both film critics and viewers, the business of Dhoom 3 dipped around 10% next day. But the movie did a record collection on Saturday, when compared to other biggies like Chennai Express and Krrish 3. The film collected Rs 33.36 crores nett (Rs 31.25 cr from Hindi and Rs 2.11 cr from Tamil and Telugu) at the Indian Box Office on the second day.
But Dhoom 3 showed a big jump on Sunday. When compared to its opening day collection, the movie witnessed 10% improvement and collected approximately Rs 39+ crores nett at the Indian Box Office on its third day. It has raked in a total of Rs 108.58 crores nett (from all versions) at the domestic collection centres in the (3 days) first weekend.
#Dhoom3 is a carefully calibrated mix of high-octane action. It's an exhilarating ride with a cheerful lack of logic. Still worth watching!
#Dhoom3 is TheDarkKnight of Indian Cinema. TDK showed hollywood how to do a superhero movie. D3 showed bollywood how to do action thriller.
I credit Aamir Khan's outside the box thinking for limiting trailers & not revealing anything abt #Dhoom3 &protecting few Shk&Awe moments.
@aamir_khan A big hats off to u for an unmatchable performance in #Dhoom3. U might not go for the numbers but the numbers surely follow u!
There are just three reasons to watch #Dhoom3. Aamir Khan, Aamir Khan and Aamir Khan pretending to be the other Aamir Khan.
#Dhoom3 - Production values are top notch & visually fantastic to watch and yes, the film has shades of Ajith starrer #Villain.
Dhoom 3, could never imagine Aamir can take it to this height. Loved every scene. There is a reason for calling him Mr. Perfectionist. Kudos!