Magic: The Gathering's upcoming Commander Legends expansion isn’t like other sets. While most of the game’s expansions are designed to work with traditional two-player gameplay formats, the 361 new cards arriving in November have Magic’s four-player Commander format in mind.
This shift from a duel to a free-for-all brawl significantly changes players’ strategies, and thus how cards in Commander Legends have been designed.
In the lead up to the set's global release next month, Mashable can exclusively reveal three of the new cards designed for four-way fights: Gor Muldrak, Amphinologist; Amphin Mutineer; and Natural Reclamation.
Gor Muldrak, Amphinologist is a Rare 3/2 Legendary Creature with the unusual ability to grow your opponents’ armies as well as your own. Fortunately this Blue/Green Human Scout also gives you protection from the creatures it creates, as well as from all other Salamanders in the game.
"You and permanents you control have protection from Salamanders,” reads the card text. “At the beginning of your end step, each player who controls the fewest creatures creates a 4/3 blue Salamander Warrior creature token."
This means you don’t have to worry too much that you’re giving your opponents troops, since the Salamanders can’t hurt you or any creature you control. As such, your enemies will probably use the amphibians to attack each other, letting you simply stand back and enjoy the carnage.
“I see this [as] a way of putting yourself in good stead with the rest of the table,” professional Magic player David Mines told Mashable, noting you’ll likely give Salamanders to others more often than to yourself.
Amphin Mutineer is a Rare 3/3 Creature whose two formidable abilities make it significantly more powerful than it appears.
The first is its triggered ability, which allows you to quickly get rid of any non-Salamander creature regardless of how big or powerful it is: "When Amphin Mutineer enters the battlefield, exile up to one target non-Salamander creature. That creature's controller creates a 4/3 blue Salamander Warrior creature token."
“[Amphin Mutineer] is able to take out one of your opponent's biggest creatures and leave them behind with what in Commander is a fairly innocuous 4/3 body (as it's more the creature's abilities than their power and toughness that matters),” said Mines, who considered the card significantly more powerful than Gor Muldrak, Amphinologist.
This triggered ability itself is enough to significantly hinder an opponent, who probably put a few eggs in their beefy monster basket. The Salamander Pirate doesn’t stop there, though. Mines noted that where Amphin Mutineer really shines is in its Encore ability: "Exile this card from your graveyard. For each opponent, create a token copy that attacks that opponent this turn if able. They gain haste. Sacrifice them at the beginning of the next end step. Activate only as a sorcery."
Natural Reclamation is a Common Green instant requiring 5 mana to play, which would be a fairly high cost if it was only a removal spell ("Destroy target artifact or enchantment").
However, it also has returning mechanic Cascade: "When you cast this spell, exile cards from the top of your library until you exile a nonland card that costs less. You may cast it without paying its mana cost. Put the exiled cards on the bottom of your library in a random order."
"Cascade effects have always been very powerful in Commander," Mines told Mashable. "Maximising value is a backbone of Magic. Getting two cards for the price of one is a way to get ahead.
"Artifacts and enchantments are among the most important things in Commander so being able to take out your opponent's most powerful permanent and get an extra card for it will not only stop them from winning the game on the spot, but also will build you favour with the rest of the table. Meaning they’re less likely to kill you!"
Verhey told Mashable he originally conceived the idea for Commander Legends almost six years ago, but it took a long time to work out the set’s structure.
Verhey is also excited that Commander Legends let their designers introduce Legendary cards from across Magic lore, without any restrictions on time or location.
“That means we can go back and revisit a ton of characters that haven’t had cards in years, or have even never had cards!” said Verhey.
Magic: The Gathering's Commander Legends set will be released on November 20.