India is a land of variety, more so when it comes to cuisines. Mumbai, like other metropolitan cities, is recognized for its wide assortment of foods. Tastiest extravaganzas are introduced in prettiest manner. Get ready to lay your hands on some of the choicest foods available in the vicinity of Mumbai. Know here about the Top 10 Street Food in Mumbai.
The unforgettable pav bhaji is indeed an inevitable treat for the discerning foodies. Order and get ready for the arrival of two metal plates with a thick vegetable masala rendered in gravy form and fluffy rolls with a slab of butter. Hold your breath! A lemon, squeezed a bit on the top of it, makes it an indomitable delicacy. All you need to do is walk for five minutes from Mumbai Central Station to get on to ‘Sardar's’, a refreshment specialist, in Mumbai.
A curtain of hanging kebabs in an open is the hallmark of Mughlai delicacy on which some of the discerning foodies cling on to get the best of Indian taste. The sizzling coals with a smoke hanging on to the sky make things more than amazing. Crisp from outside and soft from inside, kebabs attract from every quarter. All you need to do is get along to Mohammed Ali Road where these delicacies hold everyone to halt.
Vada Pav and Mumbai are synonymous. Every Mumbaikar's prized possession, these potato patties mashed with chilies, garlic and coriander are simply amazing in taste. The delicacies are dipped in chickpea flour and thereafter fried to golden. What’s more, the story of taste does not end here as it comes loaded with a plate of rock-salted fried green chilies.
Pani Puri is one of the most sought after delicacies. The serving adds to the flavor. As the vendor pokes a thumb into a crisp fried sphere and fills the masala water along with potato, chickpeas, onion and sprouted lentils, the taste become simply inevitable. However, it is recommended to opt for Elco Pani Puri Centre in Mumbai as they use mineral water.
Chicken tikka roll is something that gels at any point of time. Every Mumbaikar knows the importance of chicken tikka rolls and relies on it for taste and as well as health. With a glorified open-air kitchen on wheels, Bademiya is a good place to devour the tastiest and crunchiest chicken tikka rolls.
It is a snack but delicious and healthy. Bhel Puri renders you a crunchy, sweet and sour blend of cold serve with chopped onions and potatoes. The best part of the story is that every vendor has its own concoction making it one of the best treats for the discerning foodies. What’s more, it is the beach where one can enjoy the tasty tangy bhel puri. You can try Sharmajee's with shop number 22 or Badshah's with Shop No. No 11 opposite Levi’s Store.
It is unforgettable to enjoy the Colaba, a tourist spot especially for those who love fried and cereal. You can always try healthy breakfast as the locals get enthralled. You can always enjoy a plate of fried minced meat and hunks of bread just to make things all the more significant and worthwhile. The masala kheema is such an inevitable dish that you cannot simply ignore. There is also a coffee house nearby making things all the more significant and worthwhile.
Chana Bhatura is an amazing Indian dish. Although the dish is available widely, it is better to eat from a good shop, such as Cream Centre. It is good to note beforehand that Chana Bhatura is oily and therefore should be avoided especially if you are pound conscious. A bowl of creamy masala chickpeas adds a punch to the dish.
Though it does not fall in the category of street food but it can be considered still. It is true that coming to Mumbai and not eating the crab is missing something special. For the purpose, you can get on with Trishna, an excellent restaurant. You can also try Mahesh as well. The Mocambo Café, in Fort is another great ordeal. It is strongly recommended to eat the crab with keeping in mind the right portions to consume.
Juices and milkshakes are something, which make the mood go upbeat. Bachelor's is a place to reckon with when it comes to juices and milkshakes. A definitive hangout for shakes, juices and smoothies, it is good to have an experience. It is been more than 75 years that this shop is in business.