The 12th match of the BYJU’s Mizoram T20 2022 will take place on 18th of April 2022 between Ramhlun Venglai Cricket Club and Chhinga Veng Cricket Club at the Suaka Cricket Ground, Mizoram, India.
Current Form Chhinga Veng Cricket Club:
Chhinga Veng Cricket Club won their last match against Bawngkawn South Cricket club by 48 runs.
Chhinga Veng cricket club won the toss and elected to bat first. Lalthlamuana was removed for a duck in the 2nd over. His dismissal was followed by that of Akash Singh was perished after making 4. K Vanlalruata player an important knock of 22 in 20 balls. An impetus to the innings was provided by the cameo played by Sumit Lama who smashed 45 off 27 balls. On the back of his effort, Chhinga Veng cricket club reached a total of 147 for 7 in 20 overs.
For Bawngkawn South Cricket Club, Lalrunfela picked up 2 wickets for 14 runs.
Chasing 147, Bawngkawn South Cricket Club lost Lalmuanpuia early on in the innings. Arbin Sahi at number 3 played well for his innings of 26 in 23 balls but he was not able to convert it into a match winning knock. The middle order simply fell like a pack of cards and Bawngkawn South Cricket Club were restricted to 99 for 8 in 20 overs as they lost the match by 48 runs.
Current Form Ramhlun Venglai Cricket Club:
Ramhlun Venglai won their last match against Luangmual Cricket Club by 19 runs.
Luangmual Cricket Club won the toss and elected to field first. The bowlers of Luangmual Cricket Club delivered great lengths early on and got the rewards in the form of wickets. Lalhmachhuana at number 3 played a brilliant knock of 51 in 48 balls and brought momentum into the innings. On the back of his effort, Ramhlun Venglai Cricket Club got to a total of 118 for 5 in 20 overs.
Chasing 118, Luangmual Cricket Club lost 5 wickets for just 59 runs and looked to be in sheer trouble. Lalrinfela Zadeng bowled beautifully and picked up 3 wickets for 23 runs. Eventually, Luangmual Cricket Club were restricted to 99 for 9 in 20 overs, as they lost the match by 19 runs.
Let’s have a look at the squads:
Lalhmachhuana, Joseph Lalthankhuma, Reuben Lalhruaizela, Remruatdika Ralte, C Vanlalhruaia, Lalthakima Khawbung, Johan Lalbiakkima, Albert Ramthlanpuia, Vanlalthafamkima, B Lalremruata, Vanlalhruaitluanga, Vanlal Rinzuala, Zorinpuia Hrahsel, F Lalruatfela, Vanmalsawma, B Laltlanmawia, Lalrinfela Zadeng, K Vanrotlinga, Lalruatsanga, Remruatfela, Malsawmzela, VL Remruatpuia,
Lalhruaimawia Ralte, Lalruatdika, Gaurav Singh, Akash singh, Lalchhuanliana, Sumit Lama, Lalnuntluanga, K Vanlalruata, Rinsangzela Hmamte, Jehu Anderson, Lalduhsaka, Laltleipuia, Lalthlamuana, Rayesh Chhetri, Tony Lalringa, Jonathan Lalbiakkima, Rosianliana Ralte Junior, Lalchhandama Sailo, William Pachuau, Lalthlanawma,
Top Batsman (Runs Scored) – Lalruatdika (Chhinga Veng Cricket Club), Lalhmachhuana (Ramhlun Venglai Cricket Club)
Top Bowler (Wickets taken) – Sumit Lama (Chhinga Veng Cricket Club), Remruatdika Ralte (Ramhlun Venglai Cricket Club)
Most Sixes – Lalruatdika (Chhinga Veng Cricket Club), Lalhmachhuana (Ramhlun Venglai Cricket Club)
Player of the Match - Lalruatdika (Chhinga Veng Cricket Club)
LIVE STREAMING BYJU’s Mizoram T20 2022:
*NB these predictions may be changed nearer the start of the match once the final starting teams have been announced and we will be running ‘In-Play’ features, so stay tuned.