Written Answers
and price approval shall be called at regular intervals and will be remain valid for a maximum period of 2 years subject to revision of rates depending on market conditions.
Tender process will be conducted into two stages technical and financial. For each tender both technical and financial evaluation shall be conducted. During technical evaluation all technical aspects including capacity and capability of the firm, market reputation and standing of the firm, financial soundness etc. will be carefully evaluated. The tenderers shall be asked to submit technical and commercial tender (bids) together. Short listing will be done after technical evaluation and the short listed firm may be given another opportunity to the extent to reduce their rates, if any, in their financial bid. Financial bids received from the short listed firms will be opened in, presence of their representatives and the lowest tender (L1) shall be accepted. In case it is found that lowest tenderer (L1) does not have the capacity to supply the entire quantity, balance quantity may be offered to (L2) firm at the same price and terms and conditions.
Depending upon monthly consumption of an item, minimum turnover of eligible tender shall be indicated. Tenderers shall be required to furnish audited balance sheet along with their offer.
It shall also be made clear that no brand name should be mentioned on the items supplied against tender and Kendriya Bhandar shall be within its right to procure branded items outside tender system.
Branded Products
Branded product shall be excluded from the purview of tender system. For procurement of such items Kendriya Bhandar shall approach manufacturers for direct supplies at rates applicable to bulk purchasers. In case they express their inability to do so in writing to Kendriya Bhandar the same shall be procured from distributors authorised by them.
The number of approved suppliers for different brands of same product shall be restricted to five for items having sale upt: Rs.5 lakhs per month. For items sale exceeding this limit number of suppliers e.g. photocopier; paper and machines, computers etc. shall be restricted to (10) except in case of furniture where there are at present (20) suppliers wherein the objective shall be to reduce it to 15 nos. A sale target shall be
To Questions
given to all the suppliers including new supplier at the time of registration which should be reviewed annually (six monthly for new suppliers).
Before registering a new manufacturer for furniture items their manufacturing unit shall be visited by a team of officers to assess their capacity and to determine their category depending upon their infrastructure, plant and equipments, experience and sale to private customers.
There are a large number of items specially differentvarieties of papers for which demand is unpredictable e.g. Maplitho paper, Art card, Art paper etc. for which normally stocks are not maintained, neither manufacturer nor their authorised distributors are interested in giving supplies to Kendriya Bhandar. In that event a tender should be invited indicating name of mills etc. asking interested suppliers to indicating their source of supply etc. and lowest rate from authorised tenderer may be approved.
Registration of suppliers shall be valid for one year and shall be reviewed thereafter. At the time of renewal supplier shall be required to furnish their latest ITDC, balance sheet, sales target etc.
Kendriya Bhandar shall normally sell a product on fixed margin of profit ranging from 3% to 9% except in case of submitting its quotation against tenders wherein its margin shall be reduced upto 50% of the normal margin: In order to facilitate follow up against Govt. tenders consisting of number of items a supplier registered with Kendriya Bhandar for more than 60% of value of order (covered in the tender) shall be permitted to execute entire order at rates not exceeding those approved in Kendriya Bhandar, if any.
In order to sell capital equipment, furniture etc. Kendriya Bhandar enter into price agreement with the suppliers, who will be required to do marketing of their product on behalf of Kendriya Bhandar. Capital items being costly normally inventory shall not be maintained by Kendriya Bhandar.
There are certain items (e.g. Photocopier machines) on which rate of local sales tax is much higher than that in the other states. Further, as per existing Govt. policy manufacturing units located in a particular area are either totally exempted from Sales Tax, or lower Rate of Sales Tax is applicable. Since Kendriya Bhandar's objective is to make available goods to its customers either at a lower price or at the same price