A violent mob of President Donald Trump supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, forcing Congress to lock down as it prepared to affirm President-elect Joe Biden’s victory in the 2020 election. At least one person was shot and died during the riot.
As video of the riot emerged, athletes — many of whom spoke out against racial and social injustice in 2020 — condemned the violent behavior of the mob.
Many criticized Trump for inciting the riot. Others — like Philadelphia 76ers head coach Doc Rivers — questioned how the situation would have been handled if a group of Black individuals attempted to storm the Capitol.
Golden State Warriors guard Stephen Curry echoed that sentiment, pointing out the rhetoric Trump used against those protesting racial and social injustice in July.
And you thought "Taking A Knee" was too much!?!
Today was acts of terrorism, and should be treated as such!
Now I am watching guys break windows in the Capitol and break into the building. EVERYONE needs to stand united against this. Now they said a woman was shot in the chest on Capitol grounds. STOP THIS NOW!
Now y’all know if a crowd of black people were to gather and do this to a playground let alone the capitol it’d be a wrap for each person on the other side of law enforcement!
America showing they ass today. Only in this country can white people storm a capital and nobody gets hurt but my black ass can walk down the street and get killed. America media job well done.
This is America. did they really just storm the Capitol in an attempted .coup!?
Y'all would've bombed the capital without a second thought if these were black people. Y'all wild.
I’m in awe of what’s going on in our country. But honestly, it’s what’s been going on forever; it’s just blatant now. What’s the excuse for this one?
This is disgraceful. Every country in the world watching this laughing at how we’ve torn each other apart. We are supposed to be the model for democracy. Absolutely embarrassing. WE must be better.
More from Yahoo Sports: