Real Madrid have won all eight games across competitions so far this season. Carlo Ancelotti’s men are leading the pack in La Liga and next face Atletico Madrid at the Wanda Metropolitano on Saturday (September 18).
Meanwhile, Los Blancos are ready to battle Liverpool for the signature of a Southampton defender. Elsewhere, the Spanish giants are planning to move for an Inter Milan centre-back.
On that note, here's a look at the key Real Madrid transfer stories as on September 16:
Real Madrid are ready to lock horns with Liverpool for the services of Armel Bella-Kotchap, according to Fichajes via Madrid Universal.
The German defender rose to prominence with his performances for VfL Bochum, prompting Southampton to take him to the St. Mary’s Stadium this summer. Bella-Kotchap has continued his stellar form since arriving in the Premier League. The 20-year-old’s steady growth has earned him admirers at clubs around Europe, including Los Blancos.
The La Liga giants believe the German has the ability to become a long-term partner for Eder Militao at the heart of their backline. Bella-Kotchap is under contract with the Saints till 2026, so the La Liga giants are likely to monitor him for a while before moving for him. However, they could face competition from the Reds in their pursuit of the German.
Real Madrid are planning a move for Milan Skriniar next year, according to Football Insider.
The Slovakian defender is in the final year of his contract with Inter Milan but is yet to commit himself to the club. The player was the subject of an aggressive pursuit from Paris Saint-Germain this summer but ended up staying at the San Siro.
However, speculation regarding his future refuses to end, with Los Blancos also monitoring him with interest.
The La Liga giants have found success in securing Antonio Rudiger and David Alaba on Bosman moves in recent transfer windows. They could look to repeat the trick with Skriniar if the Nerazzurri fail to tie him down to an extension.
Vinicius Junior has been making headlines this season for various reasons. While the Brazilian has been in red-hot form with Real Madrid, his on-pitch behaviour against Mallorca stirred up controversy.
Los Blancos will turn to him to lead the attack in the absence of Karim Benzema against Atletico Madrid.
Speaking ahead of the game, as relayed by Madrid Universal, Vinicius expressed a desire to replicate the success from the previous campaign.
“I am very excited about this season, and I am hoping that it will be the same as or better than last season. I have the trust of everyone and the coach, who always tells me that he has confidence in front of goal,” said Vinicius.
He added:
Vinicius has five goals from eight games across competitions this campaign.