I am writing this post just after watching Puyol injure his elbow for a challenge in the closing minutes of a game almost already won! That’s Puyol for you! Barca’s very own Captain Caveman who plays with his hair on his face and heart on his sleeve, giving everything on the field. Yes, he has just returned from an injury and yes, they are ahead 2-0 nearing FT but no, Puyol doesn’t rest but contests every challenge and runs for every ball in his own half.
 So what makes this 1. 78 m tall not-so-quick and technically less sound Catalan the heart of Barca?
 The Catalan Symbol:
Puyol is a symbol of Catalan pride, which is visible in the attitude he shows towards his fans. Do you know that Puyol is a follower of Buddhism and he strongly supports the Tibetian cause? Yes, we’ve seen footballers doing charity works but how many footballers have really supported a cause of a nation that doesn’t exist according to most of us. How many Captains have ever apologised to rival fans for a flamboyant celebration of one of his players? How many captains have ever let another player lift the Champions League trophy? Who treats two kids (Cesc and Pique) equal to him when he is the epitome of the team that is Barca? Puyol does it all! Simplicity – that’s what I would describe Puyol as!
 The Defending Machine:
So he is not the best CB at the moment. Pique and Vidic are better central defenders. But Puyol is definitely the best defender of the modern game. Be it be at the right flank or at the left flank, Puyol never ever misses a step. I remember a Clasico last year in which the world’s supposedly 4th best player, who is in the prime of his career (you know who I mean), even shifted wings in the 2nd half because there was this man defending in that wing, making life so difficult for him that he couldn’t even send one perfect cross in. He has seen the Zidanes, Ronaldos, Rauls . . so many players, so many strikers and at least I have never seen anyone completely overpowering him in a game. Longevity, versatility, commitment, attitude and of course defending – Puyol leads by example.
 Love for the game and club :
This humble defender left his family in his early teens to become what he is today. He said in 2010, “I don’t have Romário’s technique, [Marc] Overmars’ pace or [Patrick] Kluivert’s strength. But I work harder than the others. I’m like the student who is not as clever, but revises for his exams and does OK in the end. ” Even now he is injured, rushing for fitness to be available for the clasico.
 This video sums up everything:
Carles Puyol – More than a player in a place which is more than a club! Get well soon Captain!