Hero MotoCorp has announced that it has once again become the market leader in terms of two-wheeler sales in the country (overtaking Honda) by registering the highest monthly sales in the segment. The company has registered sales of 454,582 units in October 2022.
 Representational image of Hero Vida V1.
 Hero MotoCorp has announced that it has once again become the market leader in terms of two-wheeler sales in the country by registering the highest monthly sales in the segment. The company has registered sales of 454,582 units in October 2022, it mentioned.
 The company noted that the festive season in October'22 has helped ramping up the overall sales figures in terms of MoM (Month-on-Month) sales, however, in comparison to the corresponding month, a year ago, the sales figures took a dip. "With festivals of Dussehra and Diwali – which triggers record retail buying – occurring in the month of October this year, the dispatch sales of October are not comparable to the previous years, when the festival days are usually spread across the months of October and November," the company said in a recent press release.
 Hero noted a strong double-digit retail growth of 20% over the corresponding festive period of FY'22 during the 32-day festive season, which spanned from the first day of Navratras to the day after Bhai Dooj, it announced in the same press note. Moreover, it also added that a strong demand during the festive season has also helped the to reduce post-festive total inventory to the lowest in the previous 5 years.
 In comparison, Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India ( HMSI ) recently announced that its total sales for the month of October’22 stood at 449,391 units. These numbers include 425,969 units sold in domestic and 23,422 sold as exports.
 Previously in September 2022, HMSI made waves in the Indian two-wheeler market by overtaking Hero Motocorp Ltd in terms of retail sales. In the said month, over 2. 85 lakh two wheelers were registered across the country by HMSI as against over 2. 51 lakh two wheelers of Hero Motocorp, as per the Indian government's Vahan portal.