South Africa have taken a vital lead in the series and are bolstering with confidence for the remaining matches. With ICC Champions Trophy2017 just nine months away and South Africa not scheduled to play a lot of ODIs in the lead upto the event, this series will serve as a platform to improvise and make amends. The second encounter between these two giants is scheduled to be played at Johannesburg on Sunday and another enthralling competition looks on cards. Australia are not playing their full strength as they have rested most of their key bowlers for the series.
South Africa have a good chance to win the second game and take a 2-0 lead in the series as the visitors will have to overcome a huge mental barrier after losing the first game by six wickets and 82 deliveries to spare. Australia after a solid start lost wickets aplenty in the middle. George Bailey and John Hastings played a good hand and ensured a fighting total for the visitors but it was not going to be enough against the formidable South African line up.
De Kock and Rillee Rossouw got their team to a flying start and did well to garner quick runs with the new ball. Rossouw was dismissed for 63 but De Kock continued. He attacked the inexperienced Australian bowling line-up from the outset. He went on to record his highest ODI score of 178, which included 16 boundaries and 11 sixes. His batting was a classic display of timing and muscle power wherein he took calculated risks and was astute in his approach.
The second ODI at Johannesburg is crucial for the visitors as a loss here will add more pressure to make a comeback. Their batting will have to step and cover up for the inexperienced bowling. The middle-order will have to show more resistance and score on batting friendly wickets. Australia’s batting have the firepower but need to spend some more time in the middle. The likes of Warner, Aaron Finch, Steven Smith, Mitchell Marsh and Matthew Wade have the ability to win game single-handedly.
Australian bowlers will have to come up with a strategy to get rid of De Kock early on in the innings looking at his current form. South Africa do not possess enough depth in batting without de Villiers which could be taken advantage of.
For South Africa, their bowlers did extremely well in the first game to bounce back and chipped key wickets. Dale Steyn went for runs and will look to regain his form in the second game. Andile Phehlukwayo was impressive with his four wickets and will look to continue in same stead. They have a well-balanced bowling with an impactful spinner in the form of Imran Tahir. Kagiso Rabada leaked runs and will look for some resurrection at Johannesburg.
Their batting looked dicey without De Villiers but did a good job in his absence. Although they stumbled in the end but the job was done by the top-order. They cannot afford to make similar mistakes in the upcoming games as Australia can well pounce on this and make them pay. South Africa will look to wreck more agony on Australia. With South Africa being high on confidence, one can expect them to register another victory and take a lead in the series. If Australia are eyeing for a win, they need a total of over 350 or their bowlers have to restrict South Africa under 300 if they bowl first. As of now, Johannesburg is all set to witness a run-fest when these two teams will cross swords with each other.
South Africa: Faf du Plessis(c), Kyle Abbott, Hashim Amla, Farhaan Behardien,Quinton de Kock, Jean-Paul Duminy, Imran Tahir, David Miller,Wayne Parnell, Aaron Phangiso, Andile Phehlukwayo, Kagiso Rabada, Rilee Rossouw, Tabraiz Shamsi, Dale Steyn.
Australia: Steven Smith(c), David Warner, George Bailey, Scott Boland,Aaron Finch, John Hastings, Travis Head, Usman Khawaja, Mitchell Marsh, Joe Mennie, Chris Tremain, Matthew Wade,Daniel Worrall, Adam Zampa, James Faulkner, Shaun Marsh.
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again.