In an exclusive interview with India Today's Rajdeep Sardesai, Rhea Chakraborty said that she got to know about Sushant Singh Rajput's mental illness during their Europe trip in October 2019.
 By India Today Web Desk: Rhea Chakraborty in an exclusive interview with India Today's Rajdeep Sardesai talked about her October 2019 Europe Trip with Sushant Singh Rajput. The couple went to Europe in October 2019. The actress revealed that it was on that trip that she got to know about Sushant's mental illness. Rhea claimed that she was not living off Sushant's money, and that it was the actor who loved living life king-size.
 When asked when Rhea Chakraborty realised that Sushant was suffering from some kind of mental illness, the actress said, "When we were leaving for Europe, Sushant said that he feels claustrophobic in a flight. He took a medicine, Modafinil, without any prescription. When we reached Paris, he didn't leave his room for three days. Before the trip, he said that he was very happy. He had told me that he is very excited for the trip as he will show me his true side during our Europe stay. He will walk on the streets and have fun with me which he couldn't do in India. We were really happy. I was wondering what happened. "
She added, "In Switzerland, he was fine. He was energetic. When we reached Italy, we stayed at a Gothic hotel, which we didn't know at the time of booking. In our room there was a dome-like structure, which I didn't like. I asked him that we should change our hotel, but he insisted on staying there. He told me that there was something. I told him that it's a bad dream as I thought people get such ideas in such place. But he insisted on living in that hotel despite me telling him to change it. His health deteriorated there and he started having anxiety attacks. When I asked him what is happening, he told me that in 2013, he had a depressive episode and met a psychiatrist called Haresh Shetty. He told me that the same doctor advised him to take Modafinil, [the medicine that] he took on the flight. He told me that he was fine after that. After that, now he was feeling more depressed and anxious. Then we cut short the trip and returned. "
Rhea Chakraborty's brother Showik Chakraborty also accompanied the couple to Europe. Talking about it, Rhea said, "Showik had a great bonding with Sushant. Even we used to joke that Showik is my "sautan". Sushant, Showik and I were partners in a company called Rhealityx, which dealt with artificial intelligence. It was Sushant who named the company after me. To be a partner in the company, one has to pay Rs 33,000. I paid for Showik as he couldn't pay because he didn't have a job. Showik was preparing for CAT exams and was skeptical if he should join us. Sushant insisted Showik to join us on our Europe trip. "
On the allegation that Rhea Chakraborty was living off Sushant Singh Rajput's money, she said, "I had a fashion shoot by the clothing brand Shein in Paris. The company sent me the tickets. Sushant thought it was a great idea to make a Euro trip out of this, so he cancelled those tickets -- I have those tickets, in case I now have to prove everything -- and booked first-class tickets, and the rest of the trip he paid for the hotels. He wanted to, and I didn’t have a problem with that. I had a problem with how much he was spending. I thought it was a very expensive trip, but that was how he was. Who was I to question that? Even before this trip, he went to Thailand with six of his male friends. He booked a private jet for that trip and spent Rs 70 lakh. So, it was not like he spent the money just on me. He was like that as a person. He loved living like a star. I was not living off Sushant Singh Rajput's money. We were living like a couple. "
WATCH THE INDIA TODAY MEGA EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW OF RHEA CHAKRABORTY ON INDIA TODAY TV AT 9 PM TODAY OR LOG ON TO ww. indiatoday. in/livetv.