Why don't we show the price?
As a retailer, we independently set our prices. However, due to manufacturer restrictions, we sometimes can't display the price until you take further action.
Sprout Living, Organic Broccoli Kale Sprout Mix , 4 oz (113 g)
Shipping Weight:
Shipping WeightThe Shipping Weight includes the product, protective packaging material and the actual shipping box. In addition, the Shipping Weight may be adjusted for the Dimensional Weight (e.g. length, width & height) of a package. It is important to note that certain types of products (e.g. glass containers, liquids, fragile, refrigerated or ice packed) will often require protective packaging material. As such, these products will reflect a higher Shipping Weight compared to the unprotected product.
Product rank:
100% Pure Sprout Powder: Our Organic Broccoli Kale Sprout Mix starts with organic, non-GMO broccoli and kale seeds, Two members of the Brassica family, broccoli and kale have potent antioxidants, plant compounds such as sulforaphane, vitamins and minerals.
Freshly Sprouted & Freeze-Dried: We carefully sprout the seeds to enhance and unlock their full nutritional potential. At the peak of harvest, we freeze-dry and gently mill the fresh sprouts into a concentrated and functional powder.
Powerful Plant Nutrients: These attentive steps ensure maximum preservation of essential nutrients and enzymes while dramatically increasing shelf-life. Now you can conveniently enjoy the powerful benefits of fresh sprouts in a variety of new ways.
Add two teaspoons of our Organic Broccoli Kale Sprout Mix to boost your salad, soup, smoothie or simply eat it straight.
Broccoli sprout powder°, kale sprout powder°.
Produced in a cGMP certified facility that follows strict sanitary and regulatory procedures while occasionally processing wheat and mustard.
Store in a cool, dry place.
Do not eat the desiccant packet.
While iHerb strives to ensure the accuracy of its product images and information, some manufacturing changes to packaging and/or ingredients may be pending update on our site. Although items may occasionally ship with alternate packaging, freshness is always guaranteed. We recommend that you read labels, warnings and directions of all products before use and not rely solely on the information provided by iHerb.
|Serving Size: 2 teaspoon (3.5 g)