73 Written Answers
22. It shall be the endeavour of the central government to provide in as short a time as possible a panchayat capacity building fund through the Ministry of Panchayati Raj, which could include a certain percentage of central transfers specially earmarked for that purpose. Similarly, state governments should also create a Panchayat Capacity Building Fund for periodic training.
Chaitra 3, 1927 (Saka)
23. There should a national perspective plan on decentralized training and capacity building for all PRI functionaries with specific objectives timeframe and resources.
24. States can benefit by the use of pedagogy and training techniques with information accessible to all. The Ministry of Panchayati Raj could develop a repository of training programmes, including training resources and manuals developed by the Commonwealth. Development of master modules in training in issues of gender, poverty, mass communication etc. could also be developed.
25. Independent training impact assessment studies should be periodically undertaken to assess the outcomes of training and inform emerging needs for follow up.
26. States shall work towards upgradation of training centers, such as SIRDS, and extension training centers at the district, block level and below.
27. With respect to the training needs of Panchayat members from the Union Territories and States with Sixth Schedule areas, the Government of India would identify an SIRD or a group of institutions that could undertake the training.
Export of Arms/Ammunitions/Defence
3283. SHRI RATILAL KALIDAS VARMA: SHRI Y.G. MAHAJAN:
Will the Minister of DEFENCE be pleased to state:
(a) the details of arms/ammunitions and defence equipments exported during 2002-2003, 2003-2004,
To Questions 74
2004-2005 and amount of foreign exchange earned therefrom, country-wise;
(b) whether any target has been fixed by the Government to increase the exports during 2005-2006; (c) if so, the details thereof; and
(d) the steps being taken/to be taken by the Government to achieve the target?
THE MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE AND MINISTER OF STATE IN THE MINISTRY OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS (SHRI BIJOY HANDIQUE): (a) During the year 2002-2003, 2003-2004 and 2004-2005, the Ordnance Factory Board and Defence PSUs have exported some of their products like helicopters, helicopter and aircraft spares, spares of rifles and guns, clothing items, parachutes and accessories, aeronautical stores, communication equipments, night Vision devices, bollard pull tug, components and sub-systems etc., mainly to countries in Asia and Africa worth US $ (Million) 45.22, 93.69 and 58.67 (upto February 2005).
(b) and (c) Yes, Sir. A target of US $ (Million) 100 has been fixed.
(d) The steps taken to promote exports includeparticipation in international defence exhibitions, organizing biennial international exhibitions namely DEFEXPO and AERO INDIA, distribution of Catalogues and CDs on Indian Defence Products through Indian Exbassies, mobilizing involvement of India's Missions abroad in procuring orders for export and pursuing trade enquiries and interaction with foreign delegates/ visitors.
Benefits to Ex-PBOR
3284. SHRI T.K. HAMZA: Will the Minister of DEFENCE be pleased to state:
(a) whether the ex-Personnel Below Officer Rank (ex-PBOR) re-employed in autonomous bodies after registering their names with Director General of