Facebook has two social media apps, an instant messenger, and even an Internet provider service to some extent. But now, it looks like the company is diversifying even more. The social media giant may actually be looking to launch its own cryptocurrency.
 According to a report by The Information, Facebook may announce a new cryptocurrency by the end of this month. The report indicates that Facebook employees who work on the project, titled Libra, can choose to be paid in the new cryptocurrency token instead of cash. This follows previous reports of such a cryptocurrency possibly launching next year, which lends it even more credence.
 Aside from Facebook employees obtaining the cryptocoin however, the project is reportedly aimed at "developing nations where government-backed currencies are more volatile. " You'll largely be using the token in Facebook's products like WhatsApp and Messenger, but apparently the company is also planning ATM-style withdrawal terminals. Supposedly, there will also be sign-up benefits for merchants that accept Facebook's crypto offering as payment.
 This is in tune with Facebook's recent shift into ecommerce, what with their announcement at the F8 developer conference that they would soon have in-app shopping on Instagram and Facebook Marketplace. This is in addition to the plans for ads on WhatsApp, allowing you to make direct purchases from brands.
 At the very least, the rumours suggest that Facebook is aware of how little people trust them, because they're reportedly attempting to find partners to create a foundation that will govern the cryptocurrency. Facebook has reportedly "courted dozens of financial institutions and other tech companies to join an independent foundation that will contribute capital and help govern the digital currency. "
If the company does indeed launch a cryptocurrency, they will automatically have a larger user base than any crypto offering before, what with the 2. 3 billion Facebook users across the globe. They also seem to be trying to work with governments to get approval for their use prior to a launch, so maybe it'll have better luck with blanket bans than Bitcoin. Supposedly, there will also be measures like "stringent forms of identity verification" to avoid fraud and illegal sales.