11 Oral Answers
question is quite different from the reply being given.
SHRI DEVI LAL. I am giving reply to your question. The Government is paying full attention to the development of barren land in Orissa, which is totally dependent on rain. The seeds of the crops best suited for this land are provided to the farmers.
SHRI SATYNARAYAN JATIYA. Mr. Speaker, Sir, due to natural calamities, the farmers in Madhya Pradesh have been facing difficulties for the last three years and on this account the State Government has demanded Rs. 320 crores from the Centra: Government for waiving short term loans of farmers. Now the Central Government has also announced the waive of farmer's loan as a result of which the recovery of loans have been stopped. Under these circumstances, the farmers are not in a position to sow their crops till fresh loans are granted to them. Therefore, through you, Sir. I would like to know from the hon. Minister whether the Government would make a provision to grant loans to the farmers for sowing kharif crops from NABARD and other Central Government Financial Institutions?
SHRI BHAJAMAN BEHERA: Mr. Speaker, Sir, there are only two sources of irrigation in drought prone areas in Orissafirst the utilisation of rain water and second the utilisation of underground water. Therefore, I would like to know about the scheme of the Government to provide irrigation facilities there. What is the total drought prone area in Orissa and what decision the Central Government has taken for providing relief to these areas?
Oral Answers
from the catchment areas. Seeds are provided to them as per their requirement assessed on availability of water and quality of land so that they may increase their production. Therefore, the Government is providing all possible help to the farmers.
SHRI DEVILAL: In Orissa, 14 blocks in Phulbani district, 11 blocks in Kalahandi district, 8 blocks in Bolangir district and 6 blocks in Sambhalpur district, which means a total of 39 blocks have been declared as drought prone areas and assistance is given to each block taking into account average rainfall and quality of land in the respective areas. Possibilities are also being explored as to how the water can be provided to them
SHRI JANESHWAR MISHRA: Mr. Speaker, Sir, it is not a question of Orissa or the question of drought alone. The farmers all over the country are suffering losses due to natural calamities like drought, flood and nailstorm. The loss suffered by the persons engaged in other vocations are compensated by the Government through insurance etc., so I would like to know whether the Government have any scheme to compensate the farmers if 50 per cent or more crops are damaged due to natural calamities?
SHRI DEVI LAL: Mr. Speaker, Sir, the Government is going to help such farmers but at present criterion of 50 per cent cannot be fixed but efforts are being made that the Centre and State may bear the burden at the ratio of 2:1. The Government is ready to assist the farmers as per the needs of their land.
SHRI YAMUNA PRASAD SHASTRI: Mr. Speaker, Sir, a scheme was formulated for the drought prone areas during the period 1971 to 1981 and some drought prone districts were included in that scheme. But there are certain districts which have not yet been included in the Drought Relief Scheme. I would like to know from the hon. Deputy Prime Minister whether the Government has any proposal under consideration to include those drought prone areas under DPAP which have not yet been included in it? I would like to inform that Rewa and Satna districts in Madhya Pradesh have been experiencing drought for the last six years. Similarly, 26 districts of Madhya Pradesh have been experiencing drought situation for the last five years. Therefore, I would like to know whether the Government have any proposal to bring these districts under DPAP programme?
SHRI DEVI LAL: The hon. Member has