- Video-on-demand and video-sharing services offer convenience until you are online. But if you need access to videos offline, your best bet is to download and store them locally.
- Video downloaders make downloading videos quick and convenient. And on Google Chrome, you can do this using extension.
- Chrome’s video downloader extensions let you download videos from a host of video (and social media) websites and save them on your computer for offline access.
Streaming and on-demand video services have made consuming content (music and video) more convenient than ever before. Other than the widespread adoption of these services, another factor contributing to how we consume videos today is the democratization of the internet, making content available on-demand.
But having said that, there are times when you may still need offline access to a video. While some online platforms allow you to download videos these days, unfortunately, those videos are accessible only on the app/service and, in some cases, with premium subscriptions.
An alternative way to save videos offline is to download them locally and store them on your device. Typically, you would do this using third-party video downloading apps and services based on your device’s platform. However, if you’re a Google Chrome user, you can make the download process quick and seamless, right within the browser, using some of the best Chrome video downloaders we have put together in this list.
When it comes to downloading videos on browsers, as we mentioned, there are a lot of different apps (or websites) and browser extensions that you can use. But for the purpose of this article, we will stick to Google Chrome extensions, which are quick and easy to use.
Before you get too excited and start planning on the videos you want to download, you should know that most apps or browser extensions you get from the Google Chrome web store directly cannot download YouTube videos. This is because Google has put certain measures in place to prevent people from downloading videos from its sites. And so, any extensions that appear in their store must conform to their terms and conditions.
However, if you still want to download videos from YouTube, very few extensions let you do it by circumventing the restrictions. We have one such extension on the list. Unfortunately, we are not sure how long these extensions will work.
1. Video Downloader professional (by startpage24)
Video Downloader professional is one of the popular video downloaders for Chrome. It is available as an extension and can be downloaded for free. You can use this extension to download videos from various websites and save them on your computer. One of the best things about this extension is that it even allows you to select the download resolution for your videos — if the website supports it.
All you have to do to download a video using this Chrome video downloader is to play the video and click on the extension. The extension will then automatically capture the video and present you with a few different download options, which you can click on to begin downloading the video. Furthermore, you can also save your downloaded videos to your video list or play them via Google Chromecast.
The Flash Video Downloader is a lightweight video downloader for Chrome. It can help you download videos from a host of video websites. The extension is available for free and is pretty easy to use. Once installed, you get a few different settings that you can change to your preference. That way, you do not have to do it repeatedly every time you are about to download a file.
When downloading videos using the Flash Video Downloader, you just need to open the website you want to download the video from and click on the extension icon. It will then retrieve the video and give you the option to play it, copy its URL, or download it to your system. Unfortunately, by default, this CHrome video downloader selects the highest resolution available for a video, so you do not get the option to choose the resolution yourself.
3. Video Downloader professional (by videoloadpro)
Video Downloader professional, not to be confused with the other Video Downloader professional Chrome extension, comes from startpage24. This one is from videoloadpro and provides a few additional features compared to its counterpart. At a high level, this extension works in pretty much the same way as any other video downloader, except for a few changes.
A few such changes that VDP brings include support for a diverse set of video formats like MP4, MOV, FLV, AVI, ASF, MPG, and WEBM, along with the ability to download multiple videos simultaneously with this extension. As for download options, Video Downloader professional lets you download videos from websites in SD and HD resolutions.
Addoncrop is a video downloader website with a browser extension for different internet browsers like Chrome, Edge, Opera, and Vivaldi. It is specifically meant for use with YouTube. So if you are looking for a service that lets you download YouTube videos, Addoncrop is what you need. To get started with Addoncrop, you must first download the Crosspilot extension from the Chrome Webstore. After which, you need to go to Addoncrop and click on Install via Crosspilot. Once you do that, the download should begin. During installation, you will be required to grant permissions to the extension so it can download videos for you.
To download YouTube videos, open the video (on YouTube) you want to download. You will get a download button if the extension is active below the video. Click on it to select the resolution and download the video on your machine. You can also set your default preferences for Addoncrop by going into its settings like a few other extensions.
Video Downloader Plus is another basic yet quick video downloader extension for Chrome. It has both free and paid plans, and you can use it to download videos in different formats such as MP4, MOV, FLV, WEBM, 3GP, etc. Moreover, the extension also allows you to download videos in 2K and 4K resolution if you upgrade to one of their paid plans.
To use Video Downloader Plus, just open the video you want to download, and the extension will automatically get the download links — in different resolutions — for you. You can then click on the download button next to your preferred resolution to download the video. Alternatively, you can also save the video for later or cast it over Chromecast with the paid subscription. In addition, the paid subscription of Video Downloader Plus unlocks video downloading capabilities on a few more video platforms.
Video DownloaderHelper is an advanced video downloader for Chrome that offers a host of features. To begin with, you get support for HLS (HTTP Live Streaming) and DASH (Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP) videos. So you can download videos in these, alongside other formats, using this extension. In addition, video DownloaderHelper supports a variety of platforms such as Dailymotion, Vk, Twitter, Facebook, Udemy, Lynda, etc.
Using the extension to download is as easy as clicking through a few buttons. First, you need to open the video you want to download and then click on the Video DownloaderHelper extension. You will then get a few different options, which you can select per your requirements. These include download, download & convert, add to the blocklist, and more. Moreover, you can also set your default action in the extension and modify your preferences from its settings such that Video DownloaderHelper knows your preferred video download and conversion settings the next time you download a video.
CoCoCut is, again, a simple and easy-to-use video downloader for Chrome. In fact, not just videos, the extension also allows you to download music files and save them for offline access. CoCoCut video downloader is free to use and works with a lot of music and video platforms.
To use this extension, all you have to do is open the video or music website you wish to download content from and click on the CoCoCut extension. You will see a few different download options in different resolutions as soon as you do that. Choose your preferred resolution from the list and click on the download button to begin downloading. Furthermore, like a few other Chrome video downloaders, you can also set some of the preferences for CoCoCut to avoid having to choose the settings whenever you download an audio or video file.
Listed above are some of the best video downloaders for Chrome. Using these video downloader extensions, you can conveniently download multiple videos from various video and social media platforms on your computer, right from Google Chrome. So no matter what operating system you use—Linux, Mac, or Windows—you can download videos on Chrome with these extensions.
Word of caution: Downloading videos from sites (especially YouTube videos) without their explicit permission is regarded as a breach of terms and conditions and is categorized as a criminal act in many countries. Additionally, distributing and selling copies of this downloaded content without consent is also forbidden, and the person doing so could/could not be penalized for the same.
So as long as you download creative commons licensed videos, copyleft videos, or videos in the public domain, you can use video downloaders without worrying about the consequences. However, if the videos you intend to download do not fit into any of these categories, you should refrain from downloading them.
Which is the best video downloader for Chrome?
Video Downloader professional is the best video downloader for Chrome. It's easy to use and works across a wide range of websites. With it, you can download videos in different resolutions (if the website supports it). Plus, you also get the ability to add videos to your video list or send them directly to Chromecast and start watching them on your TV.
How do I download a video from Chrome?
You can download a video from Chrome in a few different ways. The method you choose depends on the website from where you're trying to download the video. While some websites provide a download button next to the video to make it easy for you to download videos, others don't offer this option to stop piracy.
In the case of the latter, you have to resort to using third-party apps or services to download videos from Chrome. For this, you can either choose a download manager, like the Internet Download Manager, Xtreme Download Manager, uGet, or Ninja Download Manager, or simply install a Chrome extension to download videos right inside Chrome. Check out the list above to find the best video downloader for Chrome.
Which is the best video downloader website?
SaveFrom.net and SaveMedia.Website are the best video downloader websites. You can use them on any device irrespective of its platform. Both websites are safe and easy to use, and you can use them to download videos from a range of websites, such as YouTube, Vimeo, Facebook, Twitter, etc.
What is the best free internet video downloader?
JDownloader is one of the best free internet video downloaders on the internet. It works across almost all streaming websites and is the easiest to use. One of the best things about JDownloader is that it automatically detects videos on a website. So if you need to download multiple videos embedded on a webpage, it will automatically detect them and let you download all of them at once.
Another free internet video downloader you can use is the 4K Video Downloader. It's also very easy to use and lets you download videos from various websites in different resolutions: 720p, 1080p, and 4K. Plus, you can even choose different formats to download your videos, like MP4, FLV, or MKV.