Dancing with the Stars couple Maks Chmerkovskiy and Peta Murgatroyd recently shared their heartbreaking miscarriage story in an interview with People, revealing that they have gone through three miscarriages and are slowly recovering from the pain.
 The couple got married twice. Once alone, secretly on July 8, 2017, in a small city hall ceremony in New York City and again at Oheka Castle in Long Island, New York, in the presence of their family and friends later on the same day.
 Dancing With the Stars couple Maks Chmerkovskiy and Peta Murgatroyd have been trying to expand their family for some time now. Still, the journey hasn't been pleasant for the couple, who first met on Broadway in 2009 and fell in love during the ABC’s dancing competition.
 The couple has endured three miscarriages so far. Murgatroyd suffered a recent miscarriage in October when her husband was in Ukraine. Opening up about her loss in an interview, Murgatroyd told People:
"I had no strength. I couldn't open a dishwasher. I couldn't open the fridge to feed (son) Shai, to get him some toast. "
The dancer discovered her third loss when she was hospitalized with what she assumed were COVID-19 symptoms. It was only after the diagnosis that Murgatroyd found out that she was pregnant and had miscarried. Sharing her pain, she told the outlet:
Murgatroyd had her first miscarriage while shopping at Whole Foods in 2020. She was “completely embarrassed, ultimately ashamed” and did not understand “how to utter the words and have that sentence come out of my mouth: I had a miscarriage. "
Even for Chmerkovskiy, the first miscarriage was a difficult one. Opening up about it, he said:
“The darkest part is when the person you are in love with calls you and she says that she had a miscarriage in the bathroom, that's as dark as it can get. "
After nine months, the Dancing With the Stars couple faced a second miscarriage. Opening up about her second loss, Murgatroyd said:
"I had to call him and say, 'It's happened again. ' This was the first time that I heard him get really upset, which was hard to hear because I know how it affects him too. "