Bheemla Nayak Review: Director Saagar K Chandra's Bheemla Nayak starring Pawan Kalyan and Rana Daggubati is a brilliant remake of Ayyappanum Koshiyum. Apart from the performances, it is composer S Thaman who hits it out of the park.
 By Janani K: Bheemla Nayak is the official Telugu remake of the Malayalam super hit film, Ayyappanum Koshiyum. The latter, directed by late filmmaker Sachy, features Prithviraj Sukumaran and Biju Menon. Rana Daggubati and Pawan Kalyan have been roped in to step into the shoes of Prithviraj and Biju, respectively. Seldom does a remake work better than the original. And Bheemla Nayak is one such film, where the remake turned out to be better than the original.
 Bheemla Nayak follows the story of two men and their egos. Bheemla Nayak (Pawan Kalyan) is a righteous sub-inspector while Daniel Shekar is a retired military officer. When two men with big egos are pitted against each other, what you get is a film that is high on testosterone. Unlike the original, the remake is spruced up with masala and mass moments. Director Trivikram Srinivas adapted Ayyappanum Koshiyum to suit the sensibilities of a Telugu audience.
 Ayyappanum Koshiyum, which is currently streaming on Amazon Prime Video, is one of the most appreciated films from Mollywood. The film and its remake shed light on how two egoistic men battle with each other and deal with the repercussions. The two films also bring forth an important discussion about men's egos affecting women (and their families) in their lives.
 Here's the trailer of Bheemla Nayak:
Bheemla Nayak has screenplay written by Trivikram Srinivas. And he, along with director Saagar K Chandra, has cooked up a delightful remake. The Telugu version works majorly because the makers have cut short the runtime. While the original was close to three hours, the remake is around two-and-a-half hours long. Ayyappanum Koshiyum felt a tad bit stretched.
 The makers of Bheemla Nayak were clever in cutting down some portions and delivering the remake with a taut screenplay. Though the ending was revised to suit the Telugu audience, it gels well with the overall theme. The minor changes made in Bheemla Nayak did not ruin the essence of the original.
 One of the scenes in Ayyappanum Koshiyum featured Prithviraj's character slapping his wife. It is quite surprising and a welcoming change that the makers of Bheemla Nayak decided to do away with the problematic scene. Instead, Rana Daggubati tells his wife (played by Samyukta Menon) to sit down and not take too much pressure while she's carrying.
 Pawan Kalyan as Bheemla Nayak is a brilliant fit for the role. As the arrogant and righteous police officer, he fits the bill perfectly. Rana Daggubati as Daniel Shekhar brings his own charm to the role and, together, they both made the remake engaging. As Pawan Kalyan's partner, Nithya Menen comes as a breath of fresh air. She lights up the screen when the film gets too much about the two men. Similarly, Samyukta Menon's character has an agency in the film, which was not the case with the Malayalam version (Anna Rajan played the role in Ayyappanum Koshiyum).
 Brahmanandam's cameo in Ayyappanum Koshiyum brings much-needed laughs towards the end. Apart from the spectacular performances, it is music director Thaman who makes Bheemla Nayak as effective as it intended to. Even with the music, Thaman made interesting changes which also reminded people of Ayyappanum Koshiyum's title song.
 Bheemla Nayak is a remake which is tastefully done. When a near-perfect screenplay meets brilliant performances, the outcome is always out of the world.
 3. 5 out of 5 stars for Bheemla Nayak.