West Indies have won a major title after a long time and while people are busy praising players like Gayle, Samuels and Pollard, let us take a moment to salute an unsung hero of the West Indian team who has been criticized almost after every match calling “unfit” to lead the side. Some people even went to the extent of saying that he is only there on the team because he is the captain. But Sammy was a fighter right from the time he made his debut. He had to beat all the odds to reach where he is today. He may not be an aggressive bowler like Walsh, technically sound like Lara or does not possess hitting skills of Gayle, but he is got his own set of skills which he has put to good use and has reaped rich dividends. He has been a major contributor for the West Indian team for the past one and half years.
Darren Sammy was the first player from St.Lucia to play international Cricket. He has played for the West Indies U-19 team previously. Sammy after a successful domestic season was picked for the Champions Trophy and was scheduled to play his first match against New Zealand against whom he made his debut.He was not able to play that match because of rain so his first actual match was against Bangladesh against whom he picked up 1/19. Sammy made a sensational test debut picking up a 7 for in the second innings against England, which is one of the best bowling figures by a West Indian since Alf Valentine.
Though Darren Sammy was doing well in the domestic league,he wasn’t a regular in the West Indian team for a long time.He was constantly in and out of the side and therefore was not able to make any significant contributions. But all this changed when he was picked for the home series against Bangladesh in 2009 . He was selected only because of the main team’s pay dispute against the WICB and was appointed as the vice captain for the series. Though the West Indies lost that series, Darren Sammy’s performance was noticed by the selectors and he slowly started working his way into the team.
Chris Gayle and Dwayne Bravo, the then captain and vice captain chose not to renew their WICB contracts in 2010 and that led to Sammy’s ascension to captaincy.His selection was criticized widely as foolish since he was not a good all rounder. Sammy had a uphill task of running the team without many stalwarts and was under pressure right away. He did start improving once he got settled down in the team by making useful contributions here and there and was slowly trying to gain momentum for himself and his side. Success eluded them for the most part and he was always blamed as the reason. He took everything in his stride and worked with the team by bringing in youngsters like Bishoo and Simmons among others.
Sammy preferred bowling long spells whenever he bowls. He prefers to call himself “war horse” whose aim is to keep coming at the opponents again and again .He bowls a very tight line, stump to stump most of the times, which is the reason why he is one of the most economical bowlers around. His batting has been a boost to the team and his knocks have always been entertaining.
The West Indies had a turn around when Gayle returned to the team after a sabbatical and they made good strides in the international arena. The West Indies had a balance in their team with a number of all rounders present in the side, Sammy being one among them.
Sammy tasted success when the Australians toured West Indies last year. They drew a ODI series against Australia after many years along with the T20 series. Sammy scored well in the series with his high score being 84. He score a fine century against England at Nottingham helping his team to put a fighting total on board.
He then had a brilliant home series against the Kiwis, winning all the formats of the game thereby winning his first whole tour as a captain. Sammy’s contribution to his team has been massive. He has always gone about doing his job without a fuss and that is a big positive for West Indies cricket. He has swallowed criticisms and hard a large heart. He is an amicable,down to earth character who is always fun to be with.
The tournament in Sri Lanka is a personal milestone for Sammy to prove his detractors wrong. The answer he gave when in post match presentation when some one asked whether he has answered his critics with the performance that he has given in the finals. He said “When a man like Jesus Christ can be crucified without fault, then who is Darren Sammy!” That is measure of the man who had a very good heart. His dance along with Chris Gayle to the “Gangnam Style ” song would go down as one of the lightest moments in history of cricket.
I strongly believe Darren Sammy’s task is not over yet and he has a long way to go.He has got to lead his team to more success and I sincerely wish him luck. I am happy to say that Sammy has been a perfect entertainer for his fans and with the success yesterday he has earned lot more fans for himself. “Hats off Sammy”!