Rishabh Pant-led Delhi Capitals (DC) upstaged Shreyas Iyer's Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) in match No. 41 of the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2022 at the Wankhede Stadium on Thursday. Spinner Kuldeep bagged four wickets against his former side as Delhi Capitals recorded a four-wicket win over KKR in the cash-rich league. Let's check the updated points table, orange cap, and purple cap standings after DC's comfortable win over KKR.
 Rishabh Pant-led Delhi Capitals (DC) registered a comfortable win over Shreyas Iyer's Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) in match No. 41 of the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2022 at the Wankhede Stadium on Thursday. Pant-led DC outclassed Iyer's KKR by 4 wickets to extend Kolkata's winless run to five matches. Spin wizard Kuldeep Yadav was the star turnout for the Delhi Capitals as the Indian spinner bagged four wickets and leaked just 14 runs.
 Interestingly, Kuldeep only bowled 3 overs in Delhi's convincing win over Kolkata in the IPL 2022. While Kuldeep bagged four wickets, DC pacer Mustafizur Rahman picked up 3 wickets and bowled a crucial final over to make sure Kolkata set a below-par total of 146 in 20 overs. In reply, DC suffered an early setback as opener Prithvi Shaw recorded a golden duck in the low-scoring contest. DC opener David Warner scored a 26-ball 42 and the star batter also completed 1,000 runs against KKR in the cash-rich league. Rovman Powell's 33 off 16 balls secured DC's comfortable win in 19 overs.
 With the convincing win over KKR, Pant's DC side has secured the 6th spot on the IPL 2022 points table. Hardik Pandya-led Gujarat Titans are still the table-toppers while Mumbai Indians are placed 10th with 8 defeats to their name. Iyer's KKR side is ranked 8th in the IPL 2022 standings after suffering five back-to-back defeats.
 Rajasthan Royals (RR) opener Jos Buttler is still ruling the batting charts in the IPL 2022. Buttler has smashed 499 runs from 8 matches. The Englishman is followed by KL Rahul, who has scored 368 runs for Lucknow Super Giants (LSG) in 8 matches. DC opener David Warner has secured the 9th spot in the elite list.
 Kuldeep was named the Player of the Match for his bowling heroics against KKR. The DC spinner has taken 17 wickets from 8 matches this season. Kuldeep is second on the list of leading-wicket takers this season. RR spinner Yuzvendra Chahal has taken the most number of wickets (18) in IPL 2022. On Friday, Punjab Kings (PBKS) will lock horns with Lucknow Super Giants in match No. 42 of the IPL 2022 at the Maharashtra Cricket Association Stadium.