Nanital: An incident that has raised concerns among several officials, a group of tigers of the Corbett Tiger Reserve were spotted chewing on a plastic drum within the limits of the Dhikala range during the final week of January.
 The pictures of the incident were clicked by some tourists and on January 30, they handed it over to the authorities at the CTR. The officials mentioned that a tigress, along with her cubs, got a hold of a plastic drum in the waters of the Ramganga river and in the pictures, they are seen chewing on it.
 According to The Times of India, the tiger reserve is a plastic-free zone and even the tourists are not permitted to carry plastic products inside the reserve. It has shocked the administration and the concerned authorities have launched an investigation to find out how the container reached the reserved. Pondering beyond the authorities’ shock, the presence of the plastic container clearly exposes the status of the security of the protected area.
 Reportedly, the authorities, as a precautionary measure, have placed the concerned tigers under a watch to trace any change in their behavior.
 According to the reports, Chandrashekhar Joshi, deputy director of CTR, said that there is a requirement to investigate all the angles ranging from the negligence of the workers to plotting by poachers. Further, he added that they have sent an alert to the forest officials of the hill districts and have urged them to ensure that no solid waste material is dumped near the rivers.
 International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has listed tiger as endangered species and is mentioned on the IUCN Red List. They are regarded as one of the most endangered animals on the planet. Their extinction will have huge implications on the ecosystem that they inhabit as they occupy the top consumer position in the food chain. They regulate the population of herbivores and a fall in their population could potentially lead to the collapse of the ecosystem.
 The government of India, in April 1973, launched an ambitions flagship programme called Project Tiger to protect the big wild cat from extinction. National Tiger Conservation Authority was tasked with the administration of the project. The project laid a strong emphasis on conserving the tiger's habitat and ensure the safety of the wild cat. It is believed, that owing to the measures taken under the project, the tiger population in India has witnessed a rise.
 In 1976, India gave a nod to this treaty. CITES is an international agreement between governments and aims at ensuring that international trade in specimens of wild fauna (animals) and flora (plants) is not a threat to their survival. Tigers are protected under CITES.
 Despite, so many initiatives to protect the wild tigers, the big cat still faces threats such as shrinking habitat and illegal poaching, conflict with the neighbouring villagers and pollution, among others. Reportedly, traditional Chinese medicines use parts of a tiger such as their bones are used for manufacturing medicines that relieve body pain. Tigerskin is also used for decorative purposes and this has led to illegal hunting.