Merger of the Feudatory States of Orissa
historic occasion had generated so much feeling of emotion that no one was prepared for any introspection. Even one of the most prominent Praja Mandal leaders, Sarangdhar Das, who was a bitter critic of the old system, did not support the amendment.51 Inspite of the pressure from the members for withdrawal of the amendment, the mover refused to do so and finally it was put to vote and lost. The original resolution was adopted on the same day.52
Thus closed the glorious and eventful chapter of the freedom movement in Orissa and all its achievements were recorded duly in the legislature which had equally shared the joys and sorrows, trials and tribulations of the long struggle.
51. Orissa Legislative Assembly Proceedings, Vol. VI, 1947-48 p. 96. 52. Ibid, p.106.
The long period of our freedom struggle had checkered phases and features. The pressure of the mass movement was definitely the primary factor in moving the British authorities into action. While the movements continued, repressive measures were resorted to suppress them. But, at the same time, constitutional reforms were also initiated and carried into effect to impress upon the moderate and liberal opinion in the country about the British sincerity of purpose and thereby to counteract the rising nationalist forces. Initially the legislative bodies were mere extension of the executive councils, but gradually more democratic systems were introduced. But with the introduction of democratic forms and elective principles, communal virus was also injected into the body politic so that even in the legislative chambers nationalist forces could hardly present a united stand. Separatist tendencies were further accentuated by introducing representatives of special interests, such as the landholders, commerce, labour, etc. Besides, the franchise was so much restricted that the rising political consciousness in the country was not effective in asserting its views and in influencing the administrative decisions in its favour. Inspite of such limitations, the legislatures played their parts in various ways in helping the nationalist cause and at times displayed their constructive abilities by ameliorating long standing grievances of the people which the imperialist policy had failed to redress. Their positive contribution lay in exposing and opposing the bureaucratic misdeeds and antinational imperialistic attitudes of the British in their own citadels.
The establishment of a separate legislature for Orissa came along with the new Province only a decade before our independence. While participating in the mass movements of the freedom struggle, the people of Orissa had to agitate for long years to establish their separate existence. Though the British authorities admitted the force of arguments in favour of creating a separate province, yet they were not prepared to make any territorial adjustments for carly settlement of the problem. Necessary attention had to be paid by some of the ablest leaders of the people to this specific issue and, to some extent, this diverted their energy from the national mainstream. Nonetheless it sharpened their political consciousness and they never sacrificed national interest in the cause of local ones. During their long association for more than two decades with Bihar, the legislators from Orissa usually moved with the general trend of events, though at times they laid much emphasis on their specific grievances like flood and famine.
The Legislative Assembly of Orissa came into existence in 1937 when throughout the country the main political force, the Indian National Congress, had asserted its strength and eventually succeeded in forming ministries in seven out of eleven provinces in India. The Congress Ministries soon became a force to be reckoned within the political system of the country. While they waged many a battle in the constitutional fields to assert their rights and privileges, the provincial autonomy adumbrated in the Act of 1935 gave them opportunities to bring about much-needed socio-economic reforms for the welfare of the masses. The Congress Ministry in Orissa rose to the occasion and won several constitutional battles with the British authorities which illustrated their strength and determination in the political sphere. The socio-economic reforms introduced through legislative enactments struck at the root of old reactionary and feudal systems. Here again the progressive views of the Congress clashed with the British interest. Traditionally, the rich zamindars and propertied classes had supported the autocratic regime of the British and had also tried their best to help the foreign rulers in their attempts to curb the rising nationalist forces during the freedom struggle. Naturally when the Congress ventured to hit at the citadel of reactionary forces, there was hue and cry and the British authorities tried to come to their rescue. In Orissa such
Orissa Legislature and Freedom Struggle: 1912-47
a controversial yet beneficial piece of agrarian reform like the Madras Estates Land (Orissa Amendment) Bill, 1937, designed to lessen the burden of the raiyats, was finally wrecked by the veto of the Governor-General. The Congress sharply reacted to it, but they were out of office by that time and thereby unable to create any deadlock.
However, the Congress Party in power succeeded in introducing many constructive programmes in different fields and attempted to bestow a new lease of life on the downtrodden masses in the country within the periphery of their limited resources. This helped to rouse and inspire the feelings of the people and gave them courage to plunge into the national struggle with greater vigour and tenacity in order to reach the long cherished goal-the establishment of Purna Swaraj. In Orissa, the Congress Ministry also helped to awaken and consolidate the nationalist forces in the Feudatory States. the strongest bulwark of British strength and the breakwaters to the storm'. The policy of the British authorities to help the rulers in their efforts to suppress the spontaneous risings was opposed tooth and nail by asserting constitutional powers. At the same time, the autocratic regime of the rulers was thoroughly exposed by careful enquiry and detailed findings through a committee which helped to create strong public opinion against them. The Congress Ministry in Orissa continued at a stretch till the outbreak of the World War when the national cause compelled it to surrender constitutional power, as elsewhere in India, and the leaders plunged into direct struggle once again.
By the force of circumstances the Congress decided to wage a bitter struggle even during the war. The provincial legislatures had ceased to function in most of the States and the Congress leaders were put behind prison bars at the earliest opportunity. The provinces, where the Congress had surrendered power, were being administered by section 93 of the Government of India Act. Though the Governors tried their best to help the war efforts by all means, yet the continuation of the facade of constitutional government was not discouraged in order to give a popular colour to the autocratic policies. Among the Congress provinces, Orissa sprang a surprise when a Coalition Ministry was formed by the defection of a few Congress legislators to the opposite camp. The formation of a nonCongress Ministry was a pointer to a different direction. Whatever might have been the motives of the originators of such a policy, it
brought the internal rivalrics of the Congress into an open rift in a critical period. Although censured even by the High Command. of the Congress, there were no amends and the precedent created by such defection remained a bad political legacy for years to come. For some time the Congress occupied the Opposition bench and tried to dislodge from power the Ministry formed by political maneouvring of interested groups. But by the operation of the Defence of India Rules, and in particular, by putting a few Congress legislators in detention, such a move was rendered impossible.
The Congress Ministry was once again in the saddle by carly 19.46, and during the last two years of foreign rule it was overwhelmed by incidents outside the chamber. Of course, unlike other parts of the country, there was no serious problem of law and order in Orissa due to the absence of communal frenzy. Consequently, a firm foundation was laid for the development projects in various fields. While the constructive programmes were enthusiastically pursued,serious attention was given to the solution of the long standing problem of the Feudatory States. With the achievement of independence, it became an imperative necessity to bring those tracts into close cooperation with the provincial administration not only for realising the dreams of a 'United Utkal', but also for the greater progress and better prosperity of an area closely linked with each other culturally, linguistically and economically. The problem was a complicated one and the solution seemed baffling at one stage. There cropped up clash of interests and personalities, but at the end better sense prevailed upon the rulers who agreed to surrender their authorities to Indian Dominion. The process of merger of Indian States began in Orissa and it culminated in other parts of the country bringing the knotty problem to a satisfactory solution.
Within a few months of our independence, the bitter agitation of the people in the Feudatory States of Orissa also ended with their merger. Their subsequent integration with the provincialadministration in all fields took some time to be accomplished, but it posed no serious problem. The emergence of a greater and fuller Orissa in the Indian body politic presented immense possibilities for the all-round development of a long distressed people. The provincial legislature recorded on both the occasions (27 August 1947 and 7 January 1948) its deep sense of gratitude and paid high tributes to those who had fought and suffered for long and had become martyrs in the cause of fulfilment of our national goal.