National Award winning actor Rajkummar Rao has been roped in to portray Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in filmmaker Hansal Mehta’s upcoming web-series.
He will be seen as Netaji in a new digital series and for this forthcoming web series titled Bose, the actor will be seen in a never seen before avatar. He is sporting a half bald look and has gained 11 kilos to essay Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose on screen.
The 32-year-old actor took to Twitter to share photos of his physical transformation over time with each of his films.
Speaking to Mirror between shots, Rajkumar said, “For all my previous films — ‘City Lights’, ‘Aligarh’ and of course ‘Trapped’— I’ve been asked to lose weight. So I was delighted when I was asked to gain weight. I have been binging on pizzas, Bengali sweets and junk food for the last one month and a half and will continue this routine till August. I stopped working out two months ago.” Hailing the prep as the “golden period” of his life”, the actor said that he’s been eating everything he has craved but couldn’t because his directors wanted him in a certain look.
For his Netaji avatar, the makers tried to make the look work with prosthetics for the hairline and the waistline but it wasn’t what the actor wanted. Rajkummar then decided to work through an internal and external process for the part. “I decided that I wanted to see the character whenever I looked in a mirror and not Rajkummar. I even listened to Rabindra sangeet on the loop and read Bose’s unfinished autobiography to connect with the era. These helped me the most,” he said, adding that the series portrays him in several looks from Bose’s college days to when the freedom fighter founded the Indian National Army.
Well, this is not the first time that the actor is experimenting with his look earlier, before the release of his movie Trapped, the actor had revealed that he had actually starved himself for days to get that starved look and feel! No, he did not eat and drink air, he survived on black coffee and carrots for days to get into the right shape of the character as required by the script.
He underwent a dramatic look transformation for Sushant Singh Rajput and Kriti Sanon starrer Raabta, where he did a guest appearance. Rajkummar essayed a 324-year-old man. To get the look, the National Award-winning actor would reportedly get into the tedious process of applying prosthetics for 5-6 hours daily!