- 2 hrs ago International Malala Day 2023: Who Is Malala Yousafzai? Where Is She Celebrating Her 26th Birthday?
 - News GST Council Meeting Highlights: What Will Be Cheaper, Costlier?
 - Travel Have you been to Vishveshwaraya Falls in Mandya yet? If not, this is the best time!
 Women usually swash of knowing all there is to know about jewellery. But selecting a piece of jewellery at a store is just as difficult as to reach the tip of an iceberg. The vast ocean beyond is the intricate subject of gemology and how it is used for designing jewellery. Amit Doshi is the famous Gemologist and an Indian jewellery designer whose creations are famous even in Hollywood. He has the rare quality of mixing the scientific know-how of a gemologist with the creative brilliance of a jewellery designer.
 Internationally, Amit Doshi has also designed for Swarovski. Gems & Gemology - the quarterly journal of the Gemological Institute of America - the Dr. Edward J. Giibelin most valuable article award. His Jewellery designs have been featured regularly in Swarovski "S" Gem vision, a book on forthcoming trends in the jewellery industry from Hollywood celebrity stylist Michael O'Connor selected Amit Doshi amongst 12 international designers for her jewellery on the red carpet at the Emmy Awards held in L A, USA.
 In a tete-e-tete with Boldsky, Mr Amit Doshi talks about his first love (gemstones) and the business of jewellery designing all over the world.
 Mr Amit Doshi at the Gemological Institute of America.
 The calming white pearl or moonstone will be a good influence on a person's sensitivity, good habits, stability and health. It is popularly known to have wealth creating effects, making a person industrious and well-respected also.
 This dully shining, pale yellow gem stone has a great effect of a person's innermost humanity, spiritualism, optimism, faith and induces good judgement. It is known to make the wearer powerful, respected and endow him with good leadership qualities however, also making him susceptible to anger in the process.
 exoticism as well.
 The luminous green emerald, apart from being known for lustrous beauty also enhances a person's rationality, wit, skillfulness and dexterity. It leans towards the intellectual abilities of a person. It will make a person happy, fortunate, literate and highly respected.
 Diamonds are known for their priceless beauty and ageless splendour. It is also known to render the wearer attractive, graceful, elegant and bless him with longevity. It will make the wearer refines, humane and in possession of many great and unique qualities.
 Just like its name, the gem is a shiny wonder that pulls the wearer into the realms of spirituality, intuitiveness, universality and subtlety. It also possesses the power to create sensitivity and wealth and is known to ward off any dark and evil that may hamper the person's life.
 A memoir of the striking gorgeousness of the blue of seas and water, this magnificent stone is known to render the wearer more disciplined, realistic, modest and durable. It is known to bless the wearer with longevity of life and create a charitable disposition in him making him proficient and affectionate.
 strength, courage, passion and a positive aggression, making the wearer learned, wise and regal and well known. It is thus essential to confirm with a Vedic scientist or a learned astrologer before wearing a stone, in order to extract the maximum beneficiary powers from each.
 Gemology is a very niche subject. How did you come to be so interested in gemstones?
 Gemology is very rare and it is the reason that makes it interesting. Gemology is not taught in India but many people pursue this expensive hobby of collecting gemstones. It is the love of gemstones that lured me into the career of jewellery designing.
 Do you really believe that gemstones can affect our health, behaviour or destiny?
 No, I don't believe that gemstones can affect our future. Stones have their own set of powers and that has no bearing on your destiny.
 In India many people wear gemstones depending on their star or sun sign. Do you think that is necessary?
 Gemstones has nothing to do with the date of birth. People can wear jewellery made of any kind of gemstones they like.
 Where can we find your stores, Heritage Pointe in India?
 As of now we are located mainly in Ahmedabad. However, we are planning to open another store in Mumbai soon. It is extremely difficult to expand in India but Heritage Pointe has laboratories in USA, Hong Kong and Singapore as well.
 Are you positioning your brand Heritage Pointe as a luxury jewellery line or even common people can buy your jewellery?
 The jewellery I make is very niche so it has to be positioned as a luxury jewellery line.
 Have any celebrities worn your jewellery designs?
 Oh yes! Among Indian celebrities, Rekha and Sushmita Sen are our loyal customers. In Hollywood, Angelina Jolie has worn Heritage Pointe creations.
 Do you think that diamonds are over-rated as gemstones?
 I wouldn't say that diamonds are over-rated, but maybe it is hard for people to find gemstones of really superior quality. So compared to diamonds they are rare. Besides there is an impeccable grading system for diamonds all over the world. But for other gemstones, the system of grading is not uniform.
 As a jewellery designer, which is your favourite gemstone?
 Given a choice I would say, Alexandrite is my favourite gemstone. But it is an extremely rare and expensive gemstone. It costs 5 times more when compared to diamonds.
 Can you tell our readers how to identify good quality gemstones before buying them?
 First thing all buyers must remember is, never to buy a gemstone without a certificate. I subscribe to three certificates; the first and most authentic is GIA (Gemological Institute of America). Second is a European certificate named HRD. Lastly, there is IGI or the International Gemology Institute that gives authenticity certificates.
 - wellnessDiabetes Epidemic Shifting To Urban Poor: Noted Diabetologist Dr Mohan (Interview)
- fashion5 Things That You Should Never Wear To A Job Interview!