"Benchmark indices ended the first week of 2024 with minor losses, and the midcap index ended the week with gains for the second consecutive week. Sectoral indices ended the week on a mixed note. Eight out of 12 sectors rose while four declined. The realty sector was the top gainer, rising more than 7%," Arvinder Singh Nanda, Senior Vice President of Master Capital Services, said.
Majority of businesses have a cycle of ups and downs. The question is whether the downs are cyclical in nature or they have come up due to one off event. Agro chemical sector is in a down cycle due to one off events. Sudden increase in inventory in the industry, oversupply which came into markets to resumption of the Chinese production post covid curbs. That is the reason that the sector which did extremely well in the first part of the bull run which starred post covid has been underperforming for some time. Given the fact that in the last three months, the problem of over inventory in the system has started to reduce. Is the worst of the issues behind the agro chemical companies?
While it has been slower as compared to other sectors, even the fertilizer sector has been witnessing policy changes which have intended to plug loopholes and increase the operational efficiency of the companies. Given the policy measures, it would be worth bringing them to watchlist because if a re-rating takes place then we could see a sharp move. But one thing which one needs to remember is that in such sectors some time invested capital can underperform for some time.
Revenue from operations in the reporting period rose 10% to Rs 30,221 crore against Rs 27,486 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. The revenue growth was driven by the performance of key subsidiaries -- UltraTech Cement and Aditya Birla Capital. However, softening of realisations in Caustic Soda impacted the standalone performance.
The proceeds will be used to settle loans of its new lender, Assets Care and Reconstruction Enterprises (ACRE), an asset reconstruction company. SSG-Ares backed ACRE acquired Nagarjuna Fertilizers' entire ₹1,500 crore debt from banks by paying ₹811 crore, as reported by ET on March 29.
Som Distilleries and Arrow Greentech are among 12 companies that have delivered multibagger returns and saw profit surges in fiscal year 2023. In the last year, Som Distilleries achieved a nearly 280% return, with a sales increase of more than double, to INR1,498 crore ($202.5m), and it delivered a profit of INR60.3 crore. Arrow Greentech, a packaging firm with a market capitalisation of INR520 crore, returned 279%, with a sales increase of over three times and a FY23 profit of INR12.26 crore. Other multibaggers include companies such as Kamat Hotels, Ujjivan Financial Services and Wonderla Holidays.
Nifty stocks fell short of the estimated 10.6% with 9.7% while Nifty 500's earnings improved by 11.7% compared to the estimated 8.9%, indicating the outperformance of mid- and small-caps. Equity markets will take cues from macro data, US debt negotiations, and central bank policy meetings. Companies such as Adani Transmission, IRCTC, NHPC, Torrent Power, and Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders are among many to release the Q4 earnings in the last week of May.
Godrej Properties reports a 58% YoY increase in Q4 consolidated net profit to Rs 412 crore on account of an increase in revenue from operations. Havells India, on the other hand, reports 10% revenue growth in the quarter, while Rallis India reports consolidated revenues of Rs 523 crore, up 3% YoY.