Mathew Wade tried to repeat the heroics of ben stokes in the oval on the final day of the fifth test. It was Australia’s fightback after England finally managed to end with an early result to their long-lasting Steve Smith problem. But Mathew Wade’s 117 eventually went in unproductive as Stuart Broad and Jack Leach’s combination of eight wickets helped the home side to win by 135 runs.
Wade has shown his abilities to bat on tough and turning track of oval on day 5. Coming to the crease after Australia were struggling at 56 for 3 in a chase of 399, Wade was negotiating the spin from leach and played some wonderful drives throughout his innings.
with his busy approach, he let Australia’s scoreboard ticking, even as he saw Smith fell to Broad’s trap when he guided a short-pitched delivery to Stokes at leg gully to be dismissed under fifty for the first time in the series.
Root decided to bowl himself on and the move worked right away as he picked up Mitchell Marsh with the catch of Jos Buttler at short leg, bringing an end to a 63-run stand.
Wade, continued his aggressive batting and had Tim Paine who employed an optimistic approach as they raised a half-century stand to help bring the target below 200.
Meanwhile, England lost both their reviews, both in a couple of Archer ‘s overs. The sixth-wicket partnership, however, came to an end when Leach trapped Tim Paine in front with a turning delivery.
Mathew wade showed all his class and composure while the archer was bowling a fiery spell from the other end. with all hard yards, wade notched up his fourth hundred of his career and also his second ton of this series.
After he reached the three-figure mark, wade played aggressively but fell to root stumped by Bairstow. Soon after broad removed pat, Cummins for 13and jack leach wrapped up with Nathon Lyon and hazelwood for 0 and 1 respectively.
Steve Smith and ben stokes were prized with Man of the series where Jofra archer ended up with the man of the match for his 6 for in the first innings.
Brief scores: England 294 (J Buttler 70, J Root 57; M Marsh 5-46, P Cummins 3-84) & 329 (J Denly 94, B Stokes 67; N Lyon 4-69, M Marsh 2-40) beat Australia225 (S Smith 80; J Archer 6-62) & 263 (M Wade 117; J Leach 4-49, S Broad 4-62) by 135 runs.