As South Africa embark on yet another historic series with India, an interesting side story perks up its ears. India have always been reluctant users of technology, probably because they have had an uncomfortable history as Sachin Tendulkar’s run out points out.
South Africa was where the first instance of the third umpire was trialed. And the unfortunate first batsman to be ever run out in the game of international cricket through the decision of the third umpire was none other than the batting maestro, Sachin Tendulkar.
That little fact today might seem of little relevance, given how prevalent the third umpire has become in the sport. For those still imagining the game before the introduction of the third umpire or the television umpire as he was, also, known, two umpires shared dubious history. Cyril Mitchley got it right referring the decision of Sachin Tendulkar’s run out to the third umpire. Steve Bucknor did not want to use technology, backed himself and got it wrong against Jonty Rhodes. The television umpire was born in the series between India and South Africa.
India have been allergic to use of the Decision Review System (DRS), formerly known as the Umpire Decision Review System (UDRS). Although other cricket playing nations around the world have embraced the technology, it has not been without controversy. The recent instance when Tim Paine’s captaincy was brought into question after he failed to use the technology well in the dying moments of the one Test England managed to win in the Ashes shows just how much peril such quick decision making – to use or not use the reviews at the team’s disposal and the timing – puts captains in these days.
It seemed that India were put off when Anil Kumble used the technology and not well at all against Sri Lanka. It put India and the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) at odds with the International Cricket Council (ICC) and the rest of the cricket member boards. While there are some nuances of the technology that India have stubbornly held grievances over in terms of determination of a dismissal of a batsman, the Decision Review System and the third umpire are now part and parcel of the sport, almost to the point of being taken for granted.
But it was not just the players alone that felt threatened about the worthiness of the technology at hand. There was, also, concern that the fabric of the game as it were would change drastically with the umpire on the field no longer the sole determining authority on the field. There was worry that in the event that the umpire’s ruling was overruled by the technology, the players would lose the traditional respect reserved for the umpires as adjudicators on the field.
No technology has been without flaws. Technology has not managed to solve all problems, whether it is taking a low catch on an uneven field which makes decision making drastically polar from different camera angles or when determining to the minutest frame whether the batsman has crossed the crease or whether he is on the line that belongs to the umpire. Touch and go decisions continue to enthrall and aggravate the game’s aficionados.
Eventually the umpires have either invited scorn for being too conservative to the point of being wrong or have had to swallow the bitter pill and refer everything under the sun for the sake of safety. Even more recently, the umpires have generally learnt to accept that they might have been wrong or that they could be challenged irrespective of the accuracy of their decision on the field as is now the privilege and prerogative of the cricketers because of the Decision Review System (DRS).
If anything, such as been the integration of technology with the sport that the role of the umpires on the field has once again been brought into question. With the umpires in the ICC Cricket World Cup 2019 final not having referred to the third umpire in the matter of over throws and therefore, having controversially accorded a crucial additional run to England that in the end, putting New Zealand behind despite double ties with England, it has brought the role, relevance and also, more importantly, the degree of importance, of the third umpire once again back front and center.
It seems hard now to imagine that the sport once relied solely on the eyes and discretion of the umpire on the field and that Sachin Tendulkar being run out by a television umpire once grabbed the headlines. Fortunately Tendulkar has seen better days and despite the reservations of both, the umpires and the cricketers, the sport has seen better decisions being made in the interest of the game.