Rohit Shetty has kick-started the shooting of Cirkus. Ranveer Singh, who plays the lead in the film, was spotted at Mehboob Studios shooting for the film on Monday.
 By Jyoti Kanyal: Ranveer Singh has begun shooting for Rohit Shetty's Cirkus. The shooting of the film, which also stars Pooja Hegde, Varun Sharma and Murli Sharma, kick started at Mumbai's Mehboob Studios on Monday. The stars were spotted at the studio shooting their scenes. The team began shooting without Jacqueline Fernandez as she is currently in Dharamshala for Bhoot Police.
 Rohit Shetty is awaiting the release of Akshay Kumar-starrer Sooryavanshi, which has been delayed due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.
 WHEN DID RANVEER SINGH START SHOOTING FOR CIRKUS?
 According to a report in The Time of India, Ranveer Singh, Varun Sharma, Pooja Hegde and Murli Sharma were spotted at Mehbbob Studios on Monday. They shot another sets of scenes on Tuesday as well. A source close to the development told the publication that Rohit and Ranveer kicked it off very quietly, without calling for too much of attention. The director wants to finish shooting Cirkus by February end. A few portions of the film are supposed to be shot in Goa and Ooty at a later date.
 Cirkus will be Rohit Shetty's take on Comedy Of Errors. It was earlier rumoured to be a remake of Sanjeev Kumar, Moushumi Chatterjee and Deven Varma's 1982 comedy classic Angoor. However, the director had denied the rumours. Ranveer Singh will be seen playing a double role in Cirkus. The film will also feature actors like Siddhartha Jadhav, Johnny Lever, Sanjay Mishra, Vrajesh Hirjee, Vijay Patkar, Sulbha Arya, Mukesh Tiwari, Anil Charanjeett and Ashwini Kalsekar, most of whom are regulars at Rohit Shetty's films.
 Cirkus is Ranveer Singh's second collaboration with Rohit Shetty. Earlier, the actor-director duo worked together in 2018 film Simmba. Ranveer will also make a special appearance in Rohit's Sooryavanshi. Varun Sharma too had worked with Rohit in Dilwale, that starred Shah Rukh Khan, Kajol, Varun Dhawan and Kriti Sanon in the lead. Cirkus will be Pooja Hegde and Jacqueline Fernandez's first film with the director.