On JJ Redick's podcast "The Old Man & The Three", Andre Iguodala said he doesn't consider himself a Hall of Famer despite winning four titles and a Finals MVP award.
Iguodala added that the Hall of Fame should have different levels, with Michael Jordan occupying his own tier.
"I'm not a Hall of Famer, if you ask me," Iguodala said. "No, no, no. Those guys [Hall of Famers] had no flaws. And I think I was good, but like Kobe [Bryant] . LeBron [James] . Come on man, I can't do that. And a lot of us can't do that. They have to be in their own different world. And Michael Jordan should be in his own different world."
"That's how good MJ was," Iguodala added.
Iguodala believes that while he established himself as a good player in the NBA, he was nowhere near the elites.
Selected ninth overall by the Philadelphia 76ers in the 2004 NBA draft, Andre Iguodala has gone on to play for 19 seasons in the league. Iguodala has averaged 11.3 points per game (46.3% shooting, including 33.0% from 3-point range) and 4.9 rebounds.
He was a pivotal piece in the Warriors' championship runs, winning four rings with the team. During the 2015 NBA Finals, Andre Iguodala played an important role on both ends of the floor, earning the Finals MVP award.
On the podcast, Andre Iguodala also spoke about just how good he felt Michael Jordan was during his peak.
"I don't think we understand what we watch when we see what M.J. was doing," Iguodala said. "He was the most competitive player out there. He had that Heat culture before the Heat culture. His flaws that we saw was that everything turned into a competition."
Iguodala compared Jordan's mentality to the Miami Heat culture in that he was arguably the most competitive player of his time.
Selected third overall by the Chicago Bulls in the 1984 NBA draft, Jordan went on to win six championships and five league MVP awards. He averaged 30.1 ppg (49.7% shooting, including 32.7% from 3-point range), 6.2 rpg and 5.2 apg.
How did Michael Jordan's gambling "habit" taint his image?