South Korean tech major Samsung on Friday launched two offers in India, in a bid to make it easier for prospective buyers to own the company's premium Galaxy smartphones. One offer -- Galaxy Assured is Samsung’s buyback scheme for premium smartphones while the other one -- Galaxy Forever aims to provide affordability options to consumers looking to own the handset maker's premium range of smartphones in India. Both Galaxy Assured and Galaxy Forever plans are available across Samsung Exclusive Stores, leading retail stores and Samsung. com.
 Business, Samsung India, said in a statement.
 "These two plans are a win-win situation for consumers, who will now have a range of options while buying Samsung’s premium range of Galaxy smartphones,” added Babbar.
 For Galaxy Assured, Samsung India has partnered with Servify, a technology company that provides Device Lifecycle Management Services.
 Consumers looking to buy premium Galaxy smartphones can opt for Galaxy Assured plan to get buyback offers from Samsung. Galaxy Assured not only offers assured buyback but also ensures peace of mind for consumers planning to buy premium Galaxy smartphones such as Galaxy S20 Ultra, Galaxy S20+, Galaxy S20, Galaxy S10 Lite (512GB) and Galaxy Note10 Lite.
 With Galaxy Assured, consumers can get an assured buyback value of up to 70 per cent of the original device price for their three-month-old Galaxy S20 smartphone. A six-month-old device is eligible for up to 60 per cent assured buyback value. Consumers can get up to 50 per cent and 40 per cent of their device value after nine months and 12 months, respectively, with Galaxy Assured.
 For Galaxy Forever, Samsung India has partnered with Servify and IDFC.
 The Galaxy Forever offer lets consumers buy a brand new Galaxy S20 smartphone at just 60 per cent of the price, making it easier to own Samsung’s most premium flagship. Consumers can pay the balance 40 per cent at the end of one-year or return the device at the end of one year. To avail the offer, consumers will have to buy Galaxy S20 smartphone using EMI facility.