Hello and welcome to Sportskeeda's latest transfer news and rumours roundup. Today's stories feature the latest update on Kylian Mbappe's future and much more. On that note, let's take a look at the major happenings across Europe that made headlines on May 5, 2017:
Spanish publication, Marca has reported that 18-year-old Kylian Mbappe has decided to join Real Madrid in the summer. He is currently the hottest property in world football and the teenager is reported to be keen on working with Zinedine Zidane at the Bernabeu.
 Mbappe is set to cost around £100 million and Manchester City, Manchester United and Arsenal also remain interested in the forward.
 RMC reports that the Rojiblancos have made a contingency plan if their talisman Antoine Griezmann decides to leave for Manchester United in the summer. Griezmann is Jose Mourinho's prime target and Diego Simeone is keen to bring Alexander Lacazette from Lyon to replace the Frenchman.
 Lacazette has scored more than 30 goals for Lyon this season and has been a long-term target for both Arsenal and Liverpool. Lacazette will cost around £45 million for Atletico who are expected to receive £80 million from the sale of Griezmann.
 Despite signing a new contract a few months ago, Javier Mascherano's future is still uncertain at Camp Nou. The Argentine is expected to leave Barcelona in the summer with a number of Chinese clubs interested in the 32-year-old. Don Balon reports that Mascherano has decided to spend a year or two in China before ending his career at his boyhood club, River Plate.
 Middlesbrough are close to being relegated this season and club chairman Steve Gibson is rumoured to have zeroed in on the manager who will lead the Teeside club in the Championship.
 The Sun reports that Ryan Giggs is set to take over from caretaker manager Steve Agnew with the Welshman ready to test himself in the second division. After managing in the last few games post David Moyes’ sacking, Giggs was the assistant manager under Louis van Gaal at Manchester United until the last season.
 The 43-year-old has been out of a job since then but will be back in the hot seat at Middlesbrough come the summer.