A WQHD or Wide Quad High Definition (1440p) monitor is an ideal investment for work if you are looking for a sharper display and yet do not want to invest in a pricey high-end 4K monitor. These monitors bring in greater detail and performance, and these features come to the picture if you often have to deal with color-sensitive work.
Besides work, the higher resolution makes it a charm to watch movies and TV series during your time off. Plus, they do not strain the PC’s graphics card. As noted above, WQHD monitors are not as expensive as their 4K counterparts. You can buy one for less than $600.
So if you are looking for a WQHD monitor for your home office, we’ve shortlisted some good ones.
Let’s get started. But first,
Dell UltraSharp monitor can display 99% of the sRGB color gamut. Moreover, it’s color-calibrated from the factory, so you don’t have to do it.
The UltraSharp U2719DX also keeps your productivity in mind. For instance, it supports the proprietary Display Manager. This software lets you arrange your frequently-used apps in a pattern as per your preference. This comes in handy if you have more than one screen and want the apps arranged on both screens in a specific manner.
Lastly, there are ample connectivity options in the form of DisplayPort and HDMI connectors. The DisplayPort connector supports MST, which lets you daisy chain multiple monitors with less cable clutter.
The bottom line is if you are looking for an able 1440p performer at this price point, the Dell Ultrasharp U2719DX makes for a good buy.
It’s worth noting that this one has standard sRGB coverage. Apart from regular office work and some basic photo editing, the Samsung S34J55W handles gaming well.
This versatile monitor brings in a 75Hz refresh rate and support for FreeSync. So if you have an AMD graphics card, both these features will combine to deliver a smooth and stutter-free gaming experience.
So yeah, if you want a versatile monitor that can handle both work and play, this is the one for you.
This 65W USB-C port makes it convenient to drive the connected USB Type-C devices. For instance, if you have a USB-C port carrying laptop like the Apple MacBook Air, the power cable for the monitor will be enough to drive the display, laptop, and other peripherals like USB-C adapters. Cool, right? That takes care of the cable management woes to some extent.
Speaking of cable management, the DisplayPort connectors can be used for daisy-chaining other monitors.
More importantly, the 27-inch width means the screen gives you enough real estate to carry on your work since you can easily open two windows side-by-side. At the same time, the build quality of the ProArt Display PA278CV is excellent. The stand lets you rotate, swivel, as well as adjust the height.
The viewing angles are on point and accurate. So, whether you are just starting on the field of photo-editing or want a monitor for clear and accurate colors, this one proves to be a bang-for-the-buck deal.
Like the above monitor, you also get a USB-C port with support for both DP Alt Mode and Power Delivery. This duo makes sure that a single, compatible USB-C cable will be enough to drive the display and power the laptop. Of course, the laptop has to support USB Power Delivery.
- Ports: 1 x HDMI 1.4, 2x DisplayPort 1.2, 1 x USB C (60W)
For those unaware, FograCert Softproof is a third-party certification for design monitors. And a higher rating implies that the colors on the screen closely resemble the colors on printed materials.
While you may not get the detailed visuals of a 4K monitor, this QHD monitor does a pretty good job of displaying rich and vibrant colors. However, the colors may not be accurate out of the box, but post-calibration, this one hits the right chord.
Also, you get a 65W USB-C port for charging, meaning a less power chord to worry about.
While the base of the Viewsonic VP2785-2K sports a stylish look, it might appear a little on the heavier side, especially if you are looking for a minimalistic look on your desk.
This 1440p business monitor brings home a decent picture quality. However, compared to the ones above, the picture is a tad underwhelming in the color profiles space. But the good news is that the VA panel displays accurate colors.
But as we mentioned above, it’s a versatile monitor and comes with extras such as the support for AMD’s FreeSync technology. Plus, the 45W USB-C port is capable of powering connected laptops like the MacBook Air M1.
QWD and WQHD screens bring in the best of both worlds. The best part is that they are not just designed for color-critical work. If you look around, there are several good gaming monitors with several exciting specs.
So, will you settle for a 27-inch screen or opt for a bigger 34-inch ultrawide screen?
The above article may contain affiliate links which help support Guiding Tech. However, it does not affect our editorial integrity. The content remains unbiased and authentic.