She picked the scent thinking about me and my taste, therefore it became more than just an "accessory" I wear daily, but a talisman I cherish and adore. Each note in the fragrance's composition seems to harmonize with the different moments of my life, that's how much I love it. Hence, allow me to share my thought on this beauty.
Originally launched in 2019, Tiffany & Love For Her Perfume is a captivating, vibrant fragrance that celebrates the power of love. This versatile scent is a part of the Tiffany & Love fragrance collection, which embraces the idea of modern love and romance. The scent is a tribute to the enduring connection shared by lovers, capturing the essence of deep and passionate affection.
The fragrance was created by perfumer Honorine Blanc – an artist behind Estée Lauder Amber Mystique and Beyoncé's Heat Rush, and renowned perfumer Marie Salamagne best known for her work on the iconic Black Opium.
Perfumers draw their inspiration from the exquisite beauty and precision of Tiffany's diamond cuts: 128.54-carat Tiffany yellow diamond and the captivating Lucida®-cut diamond engagement ring. Recreating the precision and beauty of a diamond through the shape of the bottle and fragrant notes of a perfume sounds like a task for a real-life genius!
The glass flacon housing Tiffany's Love fragrances is sleek and simple. At the center of the battle is honored with an ampersand "&", representing the emotional conjunction between a shape and its core, or the unity of two individuals. The outer packaging features Tifanny's signature robin egg blue color and a t-shaped pattern, pressed all over the tube.
When you first spray this fragrance on your skin, it opens with a burst of sparkling top notes that tickle your senses with delicate, yet vibrant notes of blue basil (a special ingredient developed for Tifanny), bitterness of blackcurrant, and grapefruit. As the scent gradually evolves, the Tifanny & Love for Her heart notes reveal a harmonious bouquet of jasmine and tuberose flower – a classic choice for women's perfumes.
The base notes powered by blue sequoia, vetiver, and cedarwood anchor the fragrance, leaving a lasting impression that is both warm and comforting. The versatile composition makes Tiffany's Love fragrance a wonderful choice for any time of the day and occasion, whether you plan to wear this scent to the office, or it is your evening choice. You can read more about the perfume's fragrant notes on the official Tiffany website, dedicated to the scent.
Tiffany & Love perfume is a testament to Tiffany & Co.'s legacy captured in a solid glass flacon. Over the last few years, it has quickly become a beloved choice for women who seek a timeless fragrance that resonates with emotions and celebrates versatility. Thanks to the external simplicity and wonderful fragrance composition, Tiffany & Love will outlast passing trends, remaining classic in the world of perfumery.
The longevity of this fragrance is truly impressive, as it stays with me throughout the day without losing its allure. Its soft, sweet scent follows me every time I opened up my wardrobe! As for the occasion, I suggest you wear it any time of the day and year! Whether it's for a special occasion, a romantic evening, or an everyday business – Tiffany & Love For Her perfume matches any outfit and any mood.
Lots of love,