A Bollywood movie without latkas and jhatkas is incomplete. In almost all Bollywood movie, we get to see some dance moves. While some Bollywood celebrities can dance and make you fall in love with them, there are a few stars who can't dance.
 Some of the Bollywood actors are not jack of all trade. They might be very talented and can act really well, but they do not know how to dance. For example, Ajay Devgn is one of the versatile and talented Bollywood actors who can woe your hearts with his action, comedy as well as romance. But unfortunately, the actor can't dance well. The actor confessed in one of his interviews that "Dancing was the most Himmatwala moment for me in the film; fighting with a tiger was easier. "
Similarly, there are other Bollywood actors who are disastrous dancers on-screen. It is not just the leading men. Even some actresses cannot dance. There are many people who believe in the myth that women can dance, but it is not true. Some Bollywood actresses like Tabu, Kalki Koechlin and Vidya Balan to name a few can't dance. Katrina Kaif who is also called the Barbie Doll was once known as a disastrous dancer. But after seeing her movies in Sheila Ki Jawani, Chikini Chameli and then her dancer role in Dhoom 3, Kat made the critics eat their own words. She has finally learned Hindi and the typical Bollywood factor which is dancing.
 So, there are some Bollywood actresses who do not have the ability to dance and shake their booty. Here is a list of Bollywood actresses who can't dance at all.
 The Disastrous Bollywood Dancers:
Vidya might have won millions of hearts with her raunchy and sizzling hot performance as Ooh La La girl from The Dirty Picture. But the actress is disastrous in dancing.
 Kalki is another Bollywood actress who can't dance.
 Kangana plays it smart when it comes to dancing. She prefers keeping some simple latkas and jhatkas which can be done easily.
 The 'Rang De' or 'Mhare Hiwda Mein Naache Mor' dancer looks stiff while dancing. Moreover, lack of expressions and poor flexibility of the body makes her count in the list of Bollywood actresses who can't dance.
 Konkona Sen Sharma is one of the finest actresses who acts really well. However, the actress can't dance.
 Kajol tried hard to launch and re-launch her younger sister, Tanishaa. But the daughter of veteran actress, Tanuja failed not only in acting but dancing as well.