The Indian cricket team had a pretty mediocre outing in Sri Lanka, missing out on a semi final berth once again. I have already highlighted what went wrong with the team in one of my previous article, which sheds light on issues ranging from selection details to some of Dhoni’s on-field decisions. But playing the blame game is of no use now and Indian cricket needs to look forward.
There have to be some changes made and the selectors should be brave enough to drop some non-performing senior players so that a message can be issued to future generations, where it is made clear no cricketer’s place is safe. A change in captaincy is definitely needed, at least in the shortest format where Dhoni has to keep the seniors, owing to politics within the team. A new skipper can come in and make some bold decisions, but Indian cricket is going to go nowhere with this team and a revamp is the need of the hour.
Lets us look at the possible captaincy candidates:
1. Gautam Gambhir: He has made it clear he desires to lead the team some day and has always been on the heels of M.S.Dhoni. But his form is quite questionable and his place in the team is not assured if he keeps up these kind of performances, which means he cannot be appointed the captain now.
2. Virender Sehwag: A constant vice captain in the team, Viru has been waiting for his chance to captain the side since Sourav Ganguly stepped down. But he is also struggling for form and he is extremely undependable and that has been his bane. He has to improve a lot his batting if he wants to be the captain of the team.
4. Yuvraj Singh: He was the favorite for the captaincy role when Rahul stepped down in 2007 but our selectors decided to go with the flamboyant Dhoni back then and he was never considered for the role after that due to his form, and absence from the test team. Given that he has only recovered from a deadly disease, he needs some time to figure out his future.
5. Zaheer Khan: Though he is one of the seniors, he is injury prone and therefore cannot be captain. Moreover, being the strike bowler of the team, he needs to concentrate on his bowling alone.
6. Harbhajan Singh: Sourav Ganguly did say that Harbhajan could be a possible captaincy candidate, I have suggested his name here, but his position in the team is not guaranteed.
There are therefore very few options when it comes to captaincy. Dhoni has to continue leading the side at least until Virat is ready. India has to look into the ODI side since both that and the Test side need many changes. The quandary of Yuvraj and Raina in the test team still remains unsolved.
The IPL:
The BCCI should look into the matters of IPL, which is leading to the downfall of Indian cricket. It has aided foreign players, but is detrimental to the Indians, since those who come from abroad to feature in the IPL have now learned to play in sub continent conditions and are using the same against us.
Yes,the IPL is here to stay, but I strongly feel a rotation policy should be put in order so that a single foreign player should not be able to play in more than six to eight matches during the entirety of the tournament so that they don’t succeed overwhelmingly in Indian conditions.They should not play more than two matches on the trot.
This rule should be implemented and the Indian players who play tests should be restricted with similar rules. Moreover, should an important series come up after the IPL,the team should start practicing at least a month before the tournament.
The Youngsters :
The youngsters in the team are being shunted to the side by the seniors.They are not given chances and this has led to many talents such as Manoj Tiwary, Ajinkya Rahane and Pragyan Ojha to warm the benches. I strongly believe that they must have more exposure. Even batsmen like Pujara should be made to play in all formats because if the selectors decide to send him back to domestic cricket after playing a Test series, it is going to be detrimental to his confidence.
He is the future of Indian batting and he needs to have a permanent slot in all three formats to have enough exposure so that by the time the seniors retire, Pujara will be a complete batsman who can be the mainstay of our batting. At the very least, he should be sent on overseas tours along with the A team to hone his batting in alien conditions.
Ojha too faces a similar situation, though he is occasionally selected for the limited overs side, but has found opportunities hard to come by.He needs to be a regular in the limited overs side so that he can have enough exposure to lead the Indian spin attack.
Virat Kohli should open the batting in limited overs cricket and play at number four in tests, in other words carry the legacy of Sachin because as of today he is the only player who can at least be compared to him on the basis of statistics. Ajinkya Rahane can be the other opener, with Gambhir coming one down and Cheteshwar Pujara can play at number four. Yuvraj, Rohit Sharma and Dhoni. But the places of Rohit and Yuvraj can be shuffled between themselves and Raina if the rotation policy comes into effect.
There isn’t much to say with regards to the bowling department. Ravichandran Ashwin and Ojha could be the two regular bowlers and Irfan can be the man in limited overs cricket, but India needs to give serious thought in the fast bowling department because there aren’t many good fast bowlers around.
The bottom line :
A team’s success depends on key players and the future lies with these players who aren’t in the thick of things right now. Other youngsters, like Murali Vijay and Abhinav Mukund can also be considered, based on form and fitness. India has a good pool of youngsters and the BCCI would do better not to waste them.
A serious change in the cricketing system is needed. The coach should also be changed and a former Indian player like Rahul Dravid or Dada can be considered for the same. And a specialist bowling coach should be brought in to coach youngsters to encourage them to bowl raw pace with control.