Bahrain: Bellevision Bahrain celebrated its Unity over the last 9 years as well as laid the grounds for looking to the future as they installed the Executive Committee for the milestone year at the Papillon Restaurant Banquet Hall on Thursday 30th January 2020.
 The spectacular evening began with Alfreeda Castelino, the hostess for the evening, gracefully welcoming all present. This was followed by a beautiful glorification to our Savior with an action song performed by our little wonders Annora, Darren, Reeve, Ries and Simone.
 Then began the most awaited Installation Ceremony, which was done in a traditional manner complete with the excom making a grand procession to the stage with the traditional Mangalorean attire. Its ingress into the milestone year was used by Bellevision Bahrain as an opportunity to accolade the contributions made by the presidents of the preceding years, without whom, it would have been impossible for this association to enter into its glorious first decade. The ex-presidents were requested to join the Ex-committee in lighting up the dazzling emblem of ‘10’, which signified the joint resolution of all to continue the unity and consonance of Bellevision Bahrain.
 The vote of thanks was proposed by the general secretary, Rashmi Fernandes who expressed wholehearted gratitude to all the members and sponsors for their constant support.
 The new executive committee of Bellevision Bahrain for the year 2020 was then formally installed by Joel D’sa.
 In his presidential speech, the new president, Ivan D’souza, voiced his contentment at being able to witness the stepping of Bellevision Bahrain into its 10th year of glory and also expressed his utmost trust in his fellow ExCom members, that they would diligently support him in fulfilling his duties as the president for the year. A delicious cake bearing the Bellevision Bahrain logo, generously sponsored by Kishore D’souza was then cut by the Ex Com. The outgoing committee was felicitated with a souvenir.
 This was followed by an array of cultural programmes which kept the audience captivated. There was the mesmerizing Bollywood performance by Alisha, Annora, Iral, Nikitha, Reeva and Simone followed by a captivating dance performance by the enchanting duo Ries and Reeve.
 Thomas Fernandes, Rony Fernandes and Preetham Aranha with their soulful singing, pulled at the heartstrings of the audience. DJ Alwyn did a commendable job of keeping up the lively atmosphere with a wonderful selection of foot-tapping numbers.
 The other highlights of the evening were various spot prizes, games, housie and kids were kept occupied with colouring and puzzle solving competitions and lucky winners bagged fabulous prizes.
 Registration counter was well managed by Hilda D’sa and Nirmala Fernandes. The beautiful passing moments were captured into stillness with his amazing photography by Ronald Fernandes. Nirmala Fernandes was called upon to offer the grace before meals and all proceeded for a sumptuous dinner.
 And at the end of the beautiful celebration of the beginning of a decade, the message was clear… to spare no effort and work together, as a team, to bring this extra spark of spirit to Bellevision Bahrain that unites us.