I’m a big fan of Bluetooth speakers that can happily withstand the hardships of sun, sea, and sand, and my favorite of the lot – the Bose SoundLink Color II – is now cheaper than ever as part of this year’s Amazon Prime Day sale.
The online retailer has knocked off a handsome $50 from the recommended retail price (RRP) of the Bose SoundLink Color II, which is now available for $78.99 (down from $129.00). That figure marks Amazon’s lowest-ever price for this particular Bluetooth speaker, making this one of the best Amazon Prime Day Bluetooth speaker deals we’ve spotted so far.
A smaller sibling to the Bose SoundLink Flex, the SoundLink Color II is wrapped in a soft silicone casing that protects it from bumps and mild splashes (although mine survived a brief but dangerous encounter with a small wave.) while also making it easy to pick up and grip. Its sound quality is impressive given its small form factor, and you’ll get up to 8 hours of battery life, too. Don't forget to see what Bose promo codes are available at the moment too.
Bose SoundLink Color II Bluetooth speaker:
Save $50 – As above, Amazon is currently offering the Bose SoundLink Color II Bluetooth speaker – which boasts fantastic durability, impressive sound quality, and a practical form factor – for the bargain price of just $78.99 this Prime Day. As well as 8 hours of battery life and a smart-looking design, you'll get helpful voice prompts (to talk you through the Bluetooth pairing) and the option of pairing two SoundLink speakers for stereo or party mode playback. Put simply, this is an excellent Prime Day Bluetooth speaker deal that's worth taking advantage of before the deal expires at midnight (PT).
You'll have to act quickly if you want to cash in on this deal. The above discount is an Amazon Lightning Deal, meaning it expires when the clock positioned next to the product listing hits zero. In this case, you've got until midnight (PT) to grab the Bose SoundLink Color II for less.
For a breakdown of similarly portable sound systems, head over to our best waterproof speakers guide. Plus, if you're keen to check out more of today's best Prime Day Bluetooth speaker deals, we've included a helpful selection below.
JBL GO 2:
Save 12% - JBL’s portable Bluetooth speakers tend to be good, but they’re even better when part of a Prime Day deal. Our review of the GO 2 praised its ultra-compact and waterproof design while knocking it a bit for low battery life. But hey, as of today, this is a cheaper speaker than yesterday, so if you’re looking for a choice Bluetooth portable, grab it while you can.
Marshall Emberton:
Save $50 - Many portable Bluetooth speakers look like toys, but Marshall’s Emberton looks like a guitar amp. If that’s not enough to grab your attention, maybe this will: the Emberton is $50 off in a rockin’ deal. Aside from its cool looks, we admired this speaker’s great battery life and rugged design in our review. This is a great Prime Day chance to snag a road-worthy Bluetooth speaker, so don’t delay (or flange).
Bang & Olufsen Beolit 20:
More of today's best Amazon Prime Day deals:
Get the hottest deals available in your inbox plus news, reviews, opinion, analysis, deals and more from the TechRadar team.
Axel is a London-based Senior Staff Writer at TechRadar, reporting on everything from the latest Apple developments to newest movies as part of the site's daily news output. Having previously written for publications including Esquire and FourFourTwo, Axel is well-versed in the applications of technology beyond the desktop, and his coverage extends from general reporting and analysis to in-depth interviews and opinion.
Axel studied for a degree in English Literature at the University of Warwick before joining TechRadar in 2020, where he then earned an NCTJ qualification as part of the company’s inaugural digital training scheme.