Green activists have now started another initiative, which is called, Tickets From Aarey.
 The brainchild of Vikram Dhembare, tickets from Aarey features names of Metro 3 stations that are engraved on a leaf that has been collected from the Aarey Forest. The underlying message for this is- 'your ticket has been paid for'
Talking about the same Vikram said, "The cost of this ticket is huge. But you are not going to pay for it, the trees in Aarey are paying for it. Birds and animals that reside in Aarey are paying for it. Your children are paying for it and the future generations that are yet to be born will pay for it".
 He further added, "Aarey is part of Mumbai’s green lung. It cleans Mumbai’s polluted air and it’s home to hundreds of species of birds, animals and insects. But authorities have started destroying it to free up land for the Metro 3 car shed. Even though there are other options available and even though Aarey cannot be replaced. We aren’t against the Mumbai Metro. We do believe it will help the city, but it should not be at the cost of such an important forest. A forest that’s vital to our future. Even though Aarey has taken a hit, we can still protect and save what’s left. Act before it’s too late. "
Also Read: BMC To Cut 140 Trees For Coastal Road Project. Where Is This Heading?
 One of the posts on this page:
This is a ticket to ride the Mumbai Metro II line. And the cost of this ticket is huge.
 But you are not going to pay for it. 2700 trees in Aarey are paying for it. Birds and animals that reside in Aarey are paying for it. Your children are paying for it. And generations of Mumbaikars yet unborn will pay for it.
 Aarey is the last lung of Mumbai. It cleans Mumbai’s polluted air. But authorities want to fell 2700 trees. To free up land for the Metro II car shed. Even though there are other options available. And even though Aarey cannot be replaced.
 We aren’t against the Mumbai Metro. We do believe it will help the city. But it cannot be at the cost of such an important forest. A forest that’s vital to our future.
 Vikram Dhembare now has a team of around 5 people who distribute these leaves in the form of a postcard to their friends, colleagues and family members and have also sent it to government officials.