On June 20, I celebrate my first Foundation Day of West Bengal as the state’s Governor. November 23, 2022, was a landmark day for me — I took the oath of office as the Governor at the Throne Room of Raj Bhavan, Kolkata.
 As my motorcade entered Raj Bhavan, as the grandeur of the magnificent edifice unfolded itself slowly in front of the moving car, I could not but think of the milieu here under colonial domination. The then Government House was viewed with fear and loathing. I could not but recall the Bengal Famine of 1943 that killed over three million people due to Winston Churchill’s policies.
 My conscience prompted me to strive towards giving back to the common man what was long due to them — a de-colonised Raj Bhavan. The common man shall get the Jana Raj Bhavan. And this shall apply to the Raj Bhavan, Darjeeling, and the Flagstaff House at Barrackpore, too.
 It was a truly satisfying day when on March 28, 2023, as part of the de-colonisation process, I assented to the West Bengal Land Laws (Repealing) Bill, 2023. This legislation seeks to correct the exploitative and repressive actions initiated by Lord Cornwallis in 1793 — infamously known as the “Cornwallis Code” — leading to the creation of the zamindari system, which proved to be detrimental to the interests of the common man. It also contained vicious provisions, excluding the Indians from holding higher ranks of services, thus depriving them of any responsible office in the then government. This Bill may be seen as the assertion of the will of the people over the vestiges of the British Raj.
 The gates of Raj Bhavan were opened to people with the handing over of the symbolic key to the Chief Minister of West Bengal by the President of India on March 27. It is now Jana Raj Bhavan. On Bengali New Year’s Day, the first batches of visitors were welcomed to the Jana Raj Bhavan.
 My connection with Bengal goes back to my childhood. My father, a freedom fighter, was inspired by Netaji. Swami Vivekananda’s teachings were motivational in our household. Sri Ramakrishna Paramahansa and Ma Sharada were worshipped. We grew up listening to and reading Tagore’s stories. Bengal had already seeped into my consciousness when I grabbed the chance of coming to Bengal as a State Bank of India employee: I had started my career in Jalpaiguri. Later postings brought me to various Kolkata SBI branches — in Esplanade and Shyambazar — before I joined the IAS.
 What I could not learn as a child, that is, learning the Bengali language, I resolved to learn now. On Saraswati Puja this year, I had my Hathey Khorey (introduction to writing Bengali). Interacting with people, knowing them, understanding them, and being one with them has been my sincere effort. As Governor, I did not want to confine myself to the cosy ivory tower.
 Bengal has several issues that are common to the rest of the country. We may have below-average rainfall one year, and a drought or floods in another year. Some issues rupture peace, and we may have to endure abrupt, unforeseen developments that distract us from our path. But the people of Bengal have shown extraordinary resilience in not only taking these challenges in their stride but also overcoming them.
 We stand at a crossroads in a time when there are narratives that attempt to thwart peaceful and harmonious coexistence. We must stand together and make our choice — to accept what is right and to reject what is not, to uphold the dignity of our great heritage.
 Bengal’s potential is immense. Its lands are fertile and has abundant natural resources. Bengal also has a glorious heritage. This is the land from where Shri Chaitanya broke down the barriers of caste and creed. Bengal is the land of Raja Rammohun Roy. It is from this land that Rani Rashmoni rose to show what women can achieve. Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar championed the cause of women’s education and empowerment. The list is endless.
 Bengal’s contributions to literature, science, technology and modern social outlook are recognised the world over. Our filmmakers and actors have been in the global limelight. The state’s rich folk culture encompasses several ethnic and sub-regional cultural forms such as jatra, baul gaan, chhau, pala gaan, kirtan, tusu gaan and pata naach.
 Bengal protests, Bengal nurtures, Bengal understands, Bengal assimilates. Bengal rises in revolts that shake the foundations of Empires. This is the Bengal that Gopal Krishna Gokhale had in mind when he said “What Bengal thinks today, India thinks tomorrow”.
 On the occasion of the anniversary of its foundation, let us renew our pledge to stand shoulder to shoulder and rise as one body to uphold the spirit of Bengal. I visualise a Bengal that grows in leaps and bounds and takes the people with it. As part of Leap Bengal, here are some of my suggestions.
 To make use of Bengal’s human capital and facilitate the change from a livelihood approach to an entrepreneurial approach, skill development and capacity building shall be taken up with the global market in perspective. Training in nursing and paramedical sciences, teaching, construction and other vocational fields may be upgraded to meet global requirements. Three districts of Bengal shall be developed as Global Healthcare Hubs where the leading medical institutions shall be incentivised to set up hospitals and research establishments. Education and training shall be imparted to medical and para-medical personnel.
 A concerted campaign shall be launched to achieve total literacy in Bengal within a stipulated time frame. Efforts shall also be made to achieve total digital literacy.
 To fast-track the marketing of agricultural produce, the “farm gate to home gate” approach shall be encouraged. An online marketing portal shall be introduced for this purpose. Adequate cold storage and logistic facilities shall be built up. Considering the e-readiness of Bengal, the ICT ecosystem may be developed by ensuring the convergence of different spheres of life with ICT, igniting a series of innovations, new markets and applications.
 Traditional industries shall be treated as part of our social heritage and protected as such with adequate support from the central and state governments. Those engaged in traditional industries shall be brought under social security measures. To help the floating population, government-sponsored canteens shall be opened in different parts of the state to provide good food at affordable prices. The role of the homemaker needs to be revisited and valued. To ensure women’s empowerment and provide security for them in old age, a notional wage shall be fixed for the domestic work done by them.
 Let us all recall Swami Vivekananda’s clarion call to the youth: “My hope of the future lies in the youths of character, intelligent, renouncing all for the service of others, and obedient — good to themselves and the country at large. ” Jai Hind.