The odds were against Liverpool when they took to field on Sunday for their most important game in April. Manchester City had just blown away Crystal Palace at the Selhurst Park and had taken a one-point lead at the top of the table. With 5 games remaining, it was too close a margin for comfort. But Liverpool's biggest problem was that they were facing a Chelsea side who were fighting for the Champions League spot and as such, desperately needed a win too.
History was not on Liverpool's side. The last time these 4 teams played together on the same weekend in April was in 2014, things had gone horribly wrong for the Merseyside club. With the game still at 0-0, a Steven Gerrard slip had allowed Demba Ba through and Chelsea had subsequently won the game. Liverpool had been fighting for the league that seasons too and Manchester City had taken advantage to get their hands on the trophy.
Klopp definitely had all these running in his mind, but on the field, he set out Liverpool in such a fashion that they showed no signs of nerves. They were clinical in their efforts and showed the world why they are worthy contenders for the title. In the end, goals from Sadio Mane and Mohamed Salah early in the second half sealed all three points and kept Liverpool in the hunt for the trophy.
While the result highlighted a clear cut win, extensive planning and tactical decisions enabled Jurgen Klopp's team to get the better of Maurizio Sarri's Chelsea. Today, we take a look at the 5 tactics from their German Manager that won the game.
Right from the kickoff, Liverpool were on Chelsea's case like wildfire on a rack of dry leaves. Barring the two central defenders, every Liverpool player went out of the way to pile up the pressure on the opposition nearest to them. Every time a Chelsea player had the ball, there was a Liverpool man rushing towards him. This continued throughout the game and unsettled the visiting side.
The pressing was initiated by Firmino at the top of the pile and every other player followed suit. If the first press was good, Liverpool were also successful in shutting out passing options for Chelsea. This resulted in Sarri's men handing over possession easily to Liverpool, who then used the ball to their advantage.
These tactics have been used by Klopp in most of his games and against Chelsea too, it worked like a charm.
The Belgian was coming off a fantastic display against West Ham United, on a night when he showed just why Real Madrid are desperate to avail his services. Hazard has the ability to turn the tide within the blink of an eye. He is truly special and can score as well as create goals, which makes him extremely dangerous.
Klopp knew that he had to keep Hazard quiet to get anything out of the game, but the German manager did not invest an extra man for the work. Instead, he relied on his team to stop the Belgian from asserting his influence on the game. And the fact that the Chelsea No. 10 started from the middle made it easier for the home side.
Whenever Hazard had the ball, Fabinho or Henderson closed him down. The Belgian tried to use his speed and skill to get past his man, ut was denied any room to maneuver his tricks. On the few times that he did manage to get past the midfield, he was isolated by van Dijk and Matip, who bullied him.
However, after Higuan's entry, the Belgian shifted to the wings and tormented Liverpool. He also had two glorious opportunities to score, but failed.
Maurizio Sarri had a dilemma against Liverpool. He knew that he needed both Kante and Jorginho to play their natural game, but had to sweat on deciding the perfect partner to complete the midfield. Where he has usually used Barkley and Kovacic, the Italian opted for Ruben Loftus-Cheek against Liverpool.
However, against the power and tenacity of Liverpool's midfield, the three men came up quite short. Kante was the pick of the lot, but Jorginho and Loftus-Cheek hardly had any impact. Henderson and Fabinho ensured that the Chelsea midfield had no space or time on the ball to thread those passes. Keita ensured that Jorginho could never dictate the tempo of the game.
Liverpool won the midfield battle early in the game and their tempo forced the Chelsea midfielders further back from their position. Ultimately, Klopp managed to shut out the supply line for Chelsea forwards and was successful in isolating them. By winning the midfield battle, Liverpool won the game.
Liverpool showed tremendous attacking intent and desire right from the word go. Within moments from the start of the game, they had piled men forward and laid siege on the Chelsea back line. The home team were relentless in their attacking endeavors and showed no fear. This attitude and attacking intent allowed them to win the game.
Faced against a Chelsea side who had the personnel to hurt them, Klopp refused to change his attacking tactics. Even though Sarri set Chelsea up to play counter-attacking football, Klopp had the courage to take the risk and go for the kill. The Liverpool players showed a lot of desire and passion on the field. It was as if they wanted to win with all their heart and were willing to sacrifice their all for it. This desire ultimately led them to all three points.
The team was full of running and possessed a never say die attitude. Klopp' side never stopped trying and in the end, by giving their all, they won the game.
Whilst Sarri decided to restrain his attacking players, Klopp gave his front men full attacking freedom to express themselves. As such, Salah and Mane were allowed to play their natural game, without any shackles and that was precisely what won Liverpool all 3 points.
Sadio Mane has been going through a golden phase. Everything he touches seems to find its way into the back of the net. Against Chelsea, the Senegalese was busy as ever and put in a man of the match shift.
And when the moment arrived, he rose the highest to meet Henderson's ball and headed in the first goal. Like a warrior refusing to die on the battlefield, he spread his courage into his teammates and urged them to fight on. And one man followed suit.
Mohamed Salah has been criticized in many quarters for having an indifferent second season. But people tend to forget that he is still a brilliant footballer. And if they needed any reminder, the Egyptian gave them a 20-yard volley, brewed to perfection, that should be a contender for the goal of the season.