India is set to face England in a multi-format series which will witness a one-off rescheduled Test match first. Ahead of the match, India will play a 4-day warm-up match against Leicestershire. India vs Leicestershire warm-up match begins on June 24 (Friday) at Grace Road Stadium in Leicester.
While Leicestershire is yet to announce the squad for the warm-up game, India has announced the squad for the India vs Leicestershire warm-up match. India will be led by Rohit Sharma in the warm-up game and almost every player of the Test squad is expected to be part of the warm-up game.
India is scheduled to play one Test against England first. It is a rescheduled match from last year’s tour, which was postponed due to COVID. India leads the Test series 2-1. The Test match will be followed by a T20I series and an ODI series. India has already announced the squad for the one-off Test. England is yet to announce the squad.
The T20I series will observe three matches. The 1st T20I will take place on July 7 (Thursday). The 2nd and 3rd T20I will be played on July 9 and 10 respectively. The venue of the 1st T20I is The Rose Bowl Stadium in Southampton. The 2nd T20I will be played at Edgbaston in Birmingham while the 3rd T20I will be played at Trent Bridge in Nottingham.
The ODI series will conclude the India tour of England 2022. The ODI will also consist of three games. The 1st ODI takes place on July 12 at Kennington Oval in London. The 2nd ODI takes place on July 14 at Lord’s in London. The final ODI will be played on July 17 at Emirates Old Trafford in Manchester.
India Squad for India vs Leicestershire Warm-match match and one-off Test: Rohit Sharma (c), Shubman Gill, Cheteshwar Pujara, Virat Kohli, Shreyas Iyer, Hanuma Vihari, Rishabh Pant (wk), Ravindra Jadeja, Ravichandran Ashwin, Shardul Thakur, Mohammed Shami, Jasprit Bumrah, Mohammed Siraj, Umesh Yadav, Prasidh Krishna, Srikar Bharat (wk).
India vs Leicestershire Live Streaming And Live Telecast Details: When And Where To Watch India’s Practice Match Live In Your Country?
The India vs Leicestershire warm-up match begins on June 24 (Friday). The venue of the match is Grace Road, Leicester. The match begins at 3:30 PM IST (11 AM local time).
The live telecast of the India vs Leicestershire warm-up match will not be available on any TV channels in India. However, fans can watch the live streaming of the match on the Leicestershire Foxes TV Youtube channel.
In the United Kingdom too, there will be no live telecast of the India vs Leicestershire warm-up match. Fans can switch to Leicestershire Foxes TV Youtube channel to enjoy the live-streaming of the match.