prompt = prompt_template.format(system="You are a programming assistant",
query="How do I sort a list in Python?")
As described in more detail in the blog post, we used:
We also used LiON, flash attention, early dropout. It's not that innovative that you can't run it, in fact you can -- see an example below.
For the base model, we used our own dataset that contains code with permissive licenses only, and open text datasets. Filtering is the key to success of this model:
The text to code proportion was 50:50, model trained for 1.2T tokens.
We don't release the base model, because its Fill-in-the-Middle (FIM) capability likes to repeat itself too much, so its practical use is limited. But if you still want it, write us a message on Discord.
We tested our hypothesis that chat data should boost base model performance in FIM and regular left-to-right code completion. We found that just 15% of open code instruction-following datasets, that we filtered for quality, improves almost all metrics.
Additionally, to improve FIM, we observed common failure modes, and prepared a synthetic dataset based on The Stack dedup v1.1 to address them.
There is a distribution shift between typical code on the internet, and the code you write in your IDE. The former is likely finished, so the model tries to come up with a suggestion that makes the code complete. You are likely to have half-written code as you work on it, there is no single addition that can repair it fully.
In practice, model needs to have a tendency to stop after a couple of lines are added, and sometimes don't write anything at all. We found that just giving it empty completions, single line completions, multiline completions that end with a smaller text indent or at least a newline -- makes it much more usable. This data was used as the rest 85% of the finetune dataset.
The final model is the result of several attempts to make it work as good as possible for code completion, and to perform well on a wide range of metrics. The best attempt took 40B tokens.
The Refact-1.6B model was trained on text in English. But it has seen a lot more languages in code comments. Its performance on non-English languages is lower, for sure.
If you are using this model, please give a link to this page.
Inference API does not yet support model repos that contain custom code.