Interglobe Marine (IGM) will take on Syed Agha CC (SAC) in the seventh game of the CBFS T10 League at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium, Sharjah on Monday. Ahead of the game, here's all you need to know about the IGM vs SAC Dream11 prediction, including fantasy cricket tips, playing XIs and pitch report.
 This is the first game of this tournament for Interglobe. They had a good run last season, going 4-1. Meanwhile, Agha CC beat DCC Starlets by 17 runs in their first game.
 The seventh game of the CBFS T10 League between Interglobe Marine and Syed Agha CC will be played on November 21 at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium, Sharjah, at 11 pm IST. The live score and commentary of the game can be followed in the Sportskeeda Live Score section.
 The pitch at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium is usually a good one to bat on, and the short boundaries are likely to favour batters. Five of the last six completed games here have seen the team batting first score more than 100. The trend could continue here.
 Khaliq looked in solid touch in the last game against DCS. He smashed a 12-ball 32, hitting five fours and a six.
 Muslimyar was the top-scorer for SAC in the first game. He racked up 38 off 18 and smacked four sixes.
 Riyasat has the knack of picking up wickets. He has taken five scalps in four games in the CBFS T20 League. He can also be handy with the bat and get boundaries.
 Mumtaz has played just two games in the CBFS T20 tournament but has taken five wickets at an economy rate of 8. 00. He could be a key bowler for IGM.
 Desai took two wickets and conceded 14 runs in two overs in the last game against DCS. He can also tonk around with the bat.
 Asif Khan was the second-highest run-getter in the CBFS T20 League last year, amassing 349 runs in five innings, including two centuries and as many fifties at a strike rate of 185. 64.
 Harsh Desai (SAC)
Asif Khan (IGM)
Noorulhadi Muslimyar (SAC)
Asif Mumtaz (IGM)
Abdul Khaliq (SAC)
Both teams have quality top-order batters and consistent all-rounders. The likes of Asif Khan, CP Rizwan, Noorulhadi Muslimyar, Harsh Desai and Touqeer Riyasat could be the ones to watch out for.